

===== PAGE 1 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
1 
IPC-2591, Version 2.0 
Connected Factory Exchange (CFX) 
1 SCOPE 
This standard establishes the requirements for the omnidirectional exchange of information between manufacturing processes 
and associated host systems for assembly manufacturing. This standard applies to communication between all executable 
processes in the manufacture of printed board assemblies - automated, semiautomated and manual - and is applicable to related 
mechanical assembly and transactional processes. 
1.1 Purpose With the growth and acceptance of digital modeling and practices in manufacturing, the lack of a holistic 
Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) standard for the transfer of information between machines, systems and processes has 
become a severe limitation to the growth of digitization and computerization in the electronics manufacturing industry, 
inhibiting technology innovations such as Industry 4.0 and Smart Factories being available to all companies in the industry, 
regardless of size, sector and location. 
This Connected Factory Exchange (CFX) standard provides a true "'plug and play" Internet of Things (loT) communication 
environment throughout manufacturing, where all equipment, manufacturing processes and transactional stations can 
communicate with each other without the need for the development and use of bespoke interfaces. CFX-enabled equipment and 
solutions from different vendors work seamlessly together. 
There are many types of users of this CFX standard, including equipment vendors, solution providers, in-house information 
technology (IT) groups, etc. The many types of data included in CFX are used in different ways depending on the application; 
for example, closed-loop feedback systems, live production dashboards, traceability (IPC-1782), manufacturing execution 
systems (MES) control, lean supply chain management, active quality management, production control, etc. 
As CFX data is fully omnidirectional, any CFX endpoint connection can consume data as well as create it. As an illustration, 
consider the scenario in which a single machine from a certain vendor is connected in-line with other machines from different 
vendors. CFX messages are sent from the single machine to other machines in the line, and to host systems such as MES. The 
single machine can also receive CFX messages from all other machines in the line, as well as from the host systems in order to 
optimize the machine operation and enable the vendor of the machines to create added-value functionality, such as to support 
machine-specific Industry 4.0. In this way, a smart, digital, Industry 4.0 factory will be comprised of many different Industry   
4.0 computerization applications, each of which can be provided by different suppliers, at the machine, line, site and even 
enterprise levels, all working together, sharing data seamlessly through CFX. 
This CFX standard supports the concept of big data by including data of different types from across the factory, including 
performance, materials, resources, users, quality events, product tracking, etc., all of which can be combined to create a          
big-data environment. CFX, therefore, provides many kinds of added value opportunities to the whole manufacturing operation, 
including, for example, improving operational efficiency and productivity, quality and reliability, agility and responsiveness. 
This CFX standard helps organizations ensure that end users/consumers will receive products and services that meet or exceed 
their expectations and in the timeliest and most economically viable method. 
1.2 Application of This Standard This standard defines the communication protocol and content across all assembly production 
processes, irrespective of type or method of operation. It can also be applied to transactional operations. There are no restrictions 
in terms of product classification sector, size of operation or location. Surface-mount technology (SMT) production is not 
required to be a part of the factory. Though intended to support all aspects of printed board production, the use of CFX can be 
extended downstream to include, for example, mechanical assembly, personalization, packing and shipping, as well as upstream 
to include, for example, electrical and mechanical subassemblies. 
1.3 CFX and the Hermes Standard This CFX standard is complementary to IPC-HERMES-9852. The Hermes Standard, as 
an advanced, intelligent Surface Mount Equipment Manufacturers Association (SMEMA) standard replacement, provides    
near-instant line control, passing information about production units as they pass down the line. CFX provides vertical 
messaging that is complementary to Hermes. 
1.4 Updates to This Standard The IPC-CFX Standard Task Group intends to make frequent incremental revisions to this 
standard to support additional machines and processes. Version updates are identified by version number and the change   
(added, removed, etc.), so the reader can easily identify changes in each version. See Figure 1-1 for an example of this version 
change tracking using a portion of the CFX.Production.TestAndInspection table of this standard as an example. 
Appendix A also provides an itemized version history. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
2 
All messages in this standard apply to IPC-2591, Version 1.0 and subsequent versions, unless otherwise stated. 
Table 7-21 CFX.Production.TestAndInspection Messages 
 Name Type Description  
 GetInspectionInfo RR This message requests from an endpoint solder paste inspection results for a list of 
reference designators. -Added v1.7 
 
 UnitsInspected E Sent by a station when one or more units have been inspected.  
 UnitsTested E Sent by a station when one or more units undergo a series of tests.  
     
Figure 1-1 Version Change Tracking Example 
1.5 Definition of Requirements The words shall or shall not are used in the text of this document wherever there is a 
requirement for materials, preparation, process control or acceptance. 
The word ''should'' reflects recommendations and is used to reflect general industry practices and procedures for guidance only. 
Line drawings and illustrations are depicted herein to assist in the interpretation of the written requirements of this Standard.  
The text takes precedence over the figures. 
1.6 Order of Precedence The contract shall take precedence over this standard, referenced standards and drawings. 
In the event of conflict, the following order of precedence applies: 
1) Procurement as agreed and documented between user and supplier. 
2) Master drawing, design brief or tech pack reflecting the user's detailed requirements. 
3) When invoked by the customer or per contractual agreement, this standard. 
When documents other than this standard are cited, the order of precedence shall be defined in the procurement documents. The 
user can specify alternate acceptance criteria. 
1.6.1 Conflict In the event of conflict between the requirements of this standard and the applicable drawing(s) and 
documentation, the applicable user-approved drawing(s) and documentation govern. 
Some examples of documentation include the contract, purchase order, technical data package, engineering specification or 
performance specification. In the event of a conflict between the text of this standard and the applicable documents cited herein, 
the text of this standard takes precedence. In the event of conflict between the requirements of this standard and drawing(s) and 
documentation that has not been user approved, this standard governs. 
1.6.2 Clause References When a clause in this document is referenced, its subordinate clauses apply, unless the requirement 
references specific subordinate clauses. 
1.7 Acronyms See Appendix B for a list of acronyms used in this standard. 
1.8 Terms and Definitions Other than those terms listed below, the definitions of terms used in this standard are in accordance 
with IPC-T-50. 
1.8.1 Activity  An action performed by an endpoint in the course of performing its function. There are many different types of 
activities that may be performed, depending on the specific function of the endpoint. Activities may be value added (such as 
placing components on a printed board), or non-value added (such as a tool change by a pick-and-place machine). 
1.8.2 Component The component is a single instance of a bulk material, such as a resistor, capacitor, integrated circuit (IC),   
etc. Bulk components are normally supplied in material packages. 
1.8.3 Dashboard An information management tool used to track key performance indicators (KPIs), metrics and other key    
data points relevant to a business, department or specific process. Through the use of data visualizations, dashboards simplify 
complex data sets to provide users with at-a-glance awareness of current performance. 
1.8.4 Data Integrity  Maintaining and ensuring accuracy and consistency of data over the data's entire lifecycle. Data integrity  
is a critical aspect to the design, implementation and usage of any system which stores, processes or retrieves data. 
1.8.5 Endpoint A participant in a CFX network, which is a software instance that can both  send and receive CFX messages. 
Each endpoint is a software program associated with a particular machine or process, used to exchange information related to 
the operation. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
3 
1.8.6 Factory Resource A physical location, machine, tool or device within the factory that performs any sort of function. 
1.8.7 Lane A corridor within an endpoint down which production units flow through a series of production stages (see 1.8.23). 
Many endpoints only have one singular lane, but multiple production lanes on a production line are possible and supported by 
CFX. 
1.8.8 Lock A process lock, or locked process, is one in which the endpoint must not continue any active operation. 
1.8.9 Material Carrier The material carrier is the mechanism by which a material package is located for use at an endpoint. In 
the case of SMT, for example, a feeder is a common example of the material carrier. 
1.8.10 Material Chain A set of two or more material packages connected together (i.e., by splicing them together). 
1.8.11 Material Location Identifies a specific location on an endpoint where material packages may be loaded or otherwise 
mounted (perhaps employing a material carrier to do so). For example, a single feeder slot on a feeder bank of a pick-and-place 
machine is a single material location. 
1.8.12 Material Package Material package refers to the physical mechanism in which bulk materials are supplied (e.g., on a 
reel, in a box or bag or on a tray). A single material package represents one singular package of material (one reel, one box, etc.) 
and is identified by a unique identifier that is typically labeled on to the package. 
1.8.13 Material Traceability The ability to verify the history, location or application of an item by means of documented 
recorded identification. 
1.8.14 Materials For purposes of this standard, all physical and nonphysical items which are combined together to create a  
final assembly. 
1.8.15 Operator A production operator who can actively work at an endpoint or is responsible for its operation. 
1.8.16 Process Endpoint (Station)  An endpoint associated with a production process of any kind, whether automated or 
manual. Normally referred to as a station. 
1 .8.17 Production Unit A singular instance of an item that is being produced via a production process. For printed board 
assembly, a single printed board would be considered a production unit. A single panelized printed board layout may contain 
multiple printed boards / production units on one single panel. For final assembly, the uppermost assembly would also be 
considered a production unit itself, perhaps containing one or more subassemblies, which are themselves production units 
produced by a different, previously executed process. 
1.8.18 Recipe A set of instructions, data or documentation used to control or guide the activity at an endpoint. For an SMT 
machine, this would be the set of files that form the machine program. 
1.8.19 Root The highest level in the structure, above level 1. 
1.8.20 Setup A list of materials and tools that are required to be in place in specific locations at a station. 
1.8.21 State (Production State) This refers to the state or mode of operation of a station. Possible states vary by process type, 
identified by the process state model. 
1.8.22 Station (Process Endpoint) An endpoint associated with a production process of any kind, whether automated or manual. 
1.8.23 Stage An area or zone within a Production Station endpoint in which added-value work is performed. 
1.8.24 Subassembly An assembly that will become a material of another assembly, whether they are made in the same 
environment as their peers in the hierarchical product bill of materials (BOM) or transferred from outside as materials. 
1.8.25 Symptom An indication that something may be wrong with a production unit under test. 
1.8.26 Tool An item used by a person or automated endpoint in the course of performing a particular function. Examples of  
tools used by humans would be wrench, hammer, screwdriver, etc. Examples of tools used by automated endpoints would be 
stencil or squeegee (for a stencil printer), head or nozzle (for a pick-and-place machine). 
  

===== PAGE 4 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
4 
1.8.27 Transactional Endpoint  An endpoint associated with a production process that manages or transacts, rather than being 
associated with an operational process. A transactional endpoint is usually a piece of software that performs some type of 
visibility or control function, such as a material logistics terminal. 
 
2 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS 
2.1 IPC¹ 
IPC-T-50 Terms and Definitions for Interconnecting and Packaging Electronic Circuits 
IPC-1782 Standard for Manufacturing and Supply Chain Traceability of Electronic Products 
IPC-2581 Generic Requirements for Printed Board Assembly Products Manufacturing Description Data and Transfer 
Methodology 
IPC-HERMES-9852 The Global Standard for Machine-to-Machine Communication in SMT Assembly 
2.2 ECMA International² 
Standard ECMA-262 3rd Edition ECMAScript Language Specification 
2.3 International Organization for Standardization (ISO)³ 
ISO 8601:2004 Data elements and interchange formats--Information interchange--Representation of dates and times 
2.4 SEMI⁴ 
SEMI E58-0703 Automated Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability Standard (ARAMS): Concepts, Behavior, and  
Services 
SEMI E10-0814E  Specification for Definition and Measurement of Equipment Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability 
(RAM) and Utilization 
 
3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
3.1 Guidance on the Use of This Standard This standard is comprised of two parts: 
1)  The first part is this document. 
2)  The second part is available online, which describes the detailed technical specification of messages and data structures. 
The combination of both parts forms the complete documentation of this standard. 
3.1.1 Technical Reference The link to the technical reference part of the standard is  
www.connectedfactoryexchange.com/CFXDemo/sdk. 
This link can also be used to access the CFX software development kit (SDK). 
3.1.2 Application Reference  This CFX standard has a dedicated website that provides up to date information about the 
standard, applications and supporters. Information is also posted about any updates that may be made to the CFX messaging as 
the scope expands to cover additional and new technologies. Visit www.ipc-cfx.org. 
3.2 Users of CFX There are many kinds of CFX endpoints that perform different purposes and roles within the overall CFX 
network. Each of them is able to create and receive CFX messages. 
3.2.1 Automated Assembly Processes A CFX endpoint can be created as part of the software package that exists as part of or 
together with an automated machine process. This can be applied as a standard part of the machine software or as an optional 
extra. CFX native support is expected to be built into new machines that appear on the market and provided where practical for 
machines currently supported in the market. In certain environments, where multiple physical machines are managed within a 
specific single-vendor-provided software environment, the vendor software can provide a single access point for CFX 
1. www.ipc.org 
2. www.ecma-international.org 
3. www.iso.ch 
4. www.semi.org 

===== PAGE 5 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
5 
communication, through which messages will flow as if directly to the machines. This emulation facility allows machine 
vendors to utilize CFX in line applications as well as machine applications. 
The native CFX interface represents a single data exchange mechanism to provide information about the machine operation to 
users of the machines, replacing the need for additional proprietary interfaces. 
Where there is no practical way to provide CFX native support, machine vendors and third parties may consider the use of a 
gateway solution (see 6.6), which can act as a CFX endpoint. It is connected to the machine through a combination of legacy 
native interface support and additional sensors and switches as required. 
3.2.2 In-House Manufacturing Solution Development CFX provides a single interface for any specialist or bespoke internal 
manufacturing IT projects, related to enterprise resource planning (ERP), MES, product lifecycle management (PLM), etc. 
Multiple-point solutions can exist on the same CFX network, each providing niche functionality in a common data environment. 
CFX messaging promotes the ability for point-solutions to communicate effectively through the option of inclusion of complete 
information sets in messages. 
3.2.3 MES Software Solutions  Many areas of CFX work in context within a defined factory environment. MES systems 
provide the infrastructure around the various aspects of CFX messaging in a single environment, to gain the maximum value 
from CFX. This does not exclude the use of in-house developed point solutions, which can coexist with MES solutions on the 
CFX network. 
3.3 Software Development Environment CFX endpoint software is created in a choice of development environments.          
Any language and platform may be used. The default environment is based on Microsoft.Net, for which an SDK is         
provided. It is updated in line with the latest CFX specification updates. To access the SDK, visit 
www.connectedfactoryexchange.com/CFXDemo/sdk. 
SDKs for other software development environments are encouraged, supported by members of the IPC Connected Factory 
Initiative Subcommittee. News and information about these are announced on the CFX website (www.ipc-cfx.org) when 
available. 
3.4 CFX Support Declaration  This CFX specification allows the CFX developer to choose the areas of the CFX specification 
that are appropriate for support based on the nature and capabilities of the machine, process or solution that is being developed. 
It is essential that the level of support for CFX topics is clearly shown to end-users, as they select different CFX endpoints as 
part of their overall CFX-based operation. These capabilities should also be detailed when requested by the CFX messaging 
system. See 6.1.1 for guidance on support declaration and 6.5 for CFX messaging requirements by equipment type. 
 
4 CFX STRUCTURAL OVERVIEW CFX communication consists of three key elements: 
ㆍContent - the definition and meaning of data to be encoded 
ㆍEncoding - the way in which data are encoded ready for transportation 
ㆍTransport - the messaging mechanism and infrastructure 
CFX combines all three of these elements to create a true plug-and-play standard. 
4.1 Primary Transport Layer: AMQP v1.0 The primary transport layer for CFX messages is Advanced Message Queuing 
Protocol (AMQP) v1.0(www.amqp.org). All CFX endpoints shall implement support for the primary CFX primary transport 
layer. Versions of AMQP prior to v1.0 are not compatible with CFX. 
AMQP was originally developed by the financial industry to facilitate the reliable processing of secure financial transactions 
across broad geographies. Over the years, its footprint in the computerized world and IoT space has grown well beyond the 
bounds of the financial industry, and its natural qualities of high-reliability  and secure message transmission make it an ideal fit 
for CFX. 
The use of AMQP as the primary transport protocol also greatly eases the burden of equipment makers and factory-level system 
providers as they implement their CFX support by eliminating most of the development effort needed to send and receive CFX 
messages. Equipment providers need not understand, nor worry, about the complexities of message routing and subscription 
management. Routing architectures can be as simple or complicated as needed. 
This CFX standard does not dictate any specific message AMQP v1.0 routing infrastructure, such as specific message brokers, 
queues, exchanges, pub/sub subscription management, etc. The specifics of message routing are at the discretion of the factory-
level system provider. Numerous open-source AMQP software development toolkits are freely available. Additionally, there    
are numerous message routing systems (message brokers, cloud IoT message buses, message-oriented middleware, etc.) that 

===== PAGE 6 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
6 
support the AMQP v1.0 wire protocol, both easing the burden of factory-level system providers and providing them greater 
flexibility in their implementations. 
The use of alternative transport layers is technically possible and may be applied in special cases, though this requires 
implementation in addition to the primary transport layer for all parties concerned. 
4.1.1 CFX Message Channels CFX messages are exchanged through AMQP 1.0 protocol using one or more channels. A    
single endpoint may be configured to exchange messages through multiple channels. There are three types of channels: 
ㆍEvent Channels 
CFX endpoints publish event messages to these event channels. In most cases, the recipient of event channel messages is an 
AMQP v1.0 broker or host software, such that the messages can be received by any subscribed endpoints. Event channels are 
used to publish all event type messages, as well as broadcast requests messages. The network address (URL) and AMQP target 
(typically identifying an exchange on a message broker) of event channels must be preconfigured as part of the initial CFX 
configuration for each endpoint. Event channels remain active at all times while the endpoint is active and participating in a 
CFX network. Each CFX endpoint should be preconfigured to publish events to at least one event channel. Additional event 
channels may be configured as required. 
ㆍSubscription Channels 
CFX endpoints may also be configured to receive unsolicited events and broadcast responses from one or more sources. The 
network address (URL) and AMQP source (typically identifying a queue on a message broker) of subscription channels shall be 
preconfigured as part of the initial CFX configuration for each endpoint. Subscription channels remain active at all times while 
the endpoint is active and participating in a CFX network. Each CFX endpoint should be preconfigured to receive broadcast 
requests from at least one subscription channel. Additional subscription channels may also be configured as may be required. 
 
Figure 4-1 CFX Channels Between Endpoints 
ㆍRequest/Response Channels 
CFX endpoints may dynamically create request/response channels with which to communicate directly with another CFX 
endpoint without the need to go through a broker or host. This mechanism is used for time-critical issues such as commands 
where, unlike a broadcast message, a response from the specific targeted endpoint is a requirement. Request/Response channels  


===== PAGE 7 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
7 
are created on an on-demand basis as needed, when one CFX endpoint wishes to send a request type message to another. The 
channel remains open for the lifetime of a single request/response transaction and then terminates. 
The diagram in Figure 4 -1 illustrates the many ways in which a CFX network with a complex set of channels can be created. 
In Figure 4-1, all three endpoints have been configured to publish their events to the same factory-level message routing system. 
Additionally, endpoint #2 has been configured to also publish its events directly to endpoint #3. 
The two request/response channels shown in the diagram are ad-hoc. They need not be preconfigured and may be opened and 
closed by the requester as required. Any CFX endpoint may, at any time, solicit a direct request to any other CFX endpoint. 
4.1.2 Channel Configuration Each CFX endpoint should permit end-users to configure any number of event and subscription 
channels. Additionally, endpoints shall permit end-users to enable or disable the transmission of specific CFX topics for each 
event channel, as well as specific messages within any CFX topics that are configured as enabled. 
It might be that in a particular deployment, some of the event content is not needed by any consumers. Filtering messages at the 
source prevents unnecessary information from cluttering the network and message routing infrastructure. 
4.1.3 CFX Message Types Table 4-1 summarizes the CFX message types. 
Table 4-1 Types of CFX Messages 
Type Flow Recipient 
Event Publish (Outbound Flow) Any Number of Recipients 
Request Source -> Destination One Targeted Recipient 
Response Destination -> Source Originator of Request 
Broadcast Request Source -> Destination(s) Any Number of Recipients 
Broadcast Response Destination(s) -> Source(s) Any Number of Recipients 
4.1.4 CFX Compression Beginning with IPC-2591, v 1.1 (SDK v 1.1.11 and later), the ability to apply compression to message 
data is supported. As of IPC-2591, v 1.2, compression is applied by default. Compression reduces the size of message data. The 
amount of compression varies by data type and content. This is enabled by default when using the CFX SDK. 
4.1.5 CFX - AMOP Message Properties Beginning with IPC-2591, v 1.2, all CFX messages transmitted via AMQP 1.0 
protocol shall include the information in Table 4-2 in the AMQP message and message application properties. 
 
4.2 Encoding: JSON The encoding of data in CFX refers to the format in which data fields and structures are written in CFX 
messages. 
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) (www.json.org) is a lightweight data-interchange format. It is easy for humans to read and 
write, and it is easy for machines to parse and generate. It is based on a subset of the JavaScript Programming Language, 
Standard ECMA-262 3rd Edition. 
All encoding within CFX shall comply with UTF-8 as defined by the Unicode Standard 
(www.unicode.org/standard/stadard.html). 
  

===== PAGE 8 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
8 
Table 4-2 CFX - AMQP Message Properties 
Type Name CFX Population 
AMQP Property 
message-id CFXEnvelope.UniquelD 
user-id << Not Populated >> 
to CFXEnvelope.Target 
subject 
CFXEnvelope.Source + “.” + CFXEnvelope.MessageName 
*Default value. Can be customized if desired. 
reply-to CFXEnvelope.Source 
correlation-id CFXEnvelope.RequestD 
content-type 
(no message 
attachments) 
application/json; charset=“utf-8” 
content-type 
(message 
attachments) 
Multipart/mixes; 
boundary=”CHOSEN_ASCII_BOUNDARY_CHARACTERS” 
content-encoding gzip(If using gzip compression,otherwise not populated) 
absolute-expiry-time << Not Populated >> 
creation-time CFXEnvelope.TimeStamp 
group-id <<Not Populated >> 
group-sequence << Not Populated >> 
reply-to-group-id << Not Populated >> 
AMOP Application 
Property 
cfx-topic 
Fully qualified topic name of message contained in CFXEnvelope. 
(e.g., If MessageName is CFX.Production.WorkStarted, cfxtopic = 
CFX.Production) 
cfx-message CFXEnvelope.MessageName 
cfx-handle CFXEnvelope.Source 
4.2.1 JSON Data Types The following data types are used with JSON data structure and messaging: 
ㆍ Enum: The data element shall be one of the allowable choices as defined in an associated list. 
Note: The English language will be used for enumeration data. 
ㆍInteger: A whole number; for example,“123.” 
ㆍNumeric: A number, represented by, for example,“1.23”or“12.65E3”(no commas, just one decimal point as required); 
maximum precision is 15 digits. 
ㆍString: A sequence of characters; for example,“Hello CFX.”The maximum length of a string is 2,000 characters, except 
where noted. 
ㆍDate/Time: Represented in ISO 8601 format, with mandatory time zone included. Fractional seconds are optional (i.e.,  
"2018-09-15T15:53:08+05:00"). 
ㆍString Lists: RFC 4180 compliant comma delimited list of multiple strings. Strings containing commas shall have them 
enclosed by parentheses. 
ㆍ Boolean: “1”(True) or“0”(False) 
ㆍ GUID: A system-unique 128-bit integer. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
9 
ㆍ MIME: Encoded binary, where the MIME type and data size are specified. 
4.3 CFX-Defined Content The messages used in CFX have defined data content, as defined in the detailed on-line specification 
(as referred to in 3.1.1). When possible, parameters, values and options have been defined to represent technology-based 
information, rather than being vendor-dependent or proprietary. 
4.4 CFX Key Parameters The key parameters in 4.4.1 and 4.4.2 are used throughout CFX messages. 
4.4.1 Endpoint Identification (CFX Handle) Each endpoint is identified through the use of a CFX handle, which is represented 
by a string of text that is unique within each CFX network instance. Each CFX endpoint is expected to allow end-users to 
configure the associated CFX handle, rather than it be hard-coded. It is recommended that CFX handles have a human-readable 
significance. Characters chosen as part of a CFX handle shall be able to be safely encoded in UTF-8/JSON format. The length 
of a CFX handle shall not exceed 50 characters. 
A CFX handle does not match necessarily to a singular network address or host, as a single network address might service more 
than one CFX endpoint participant. For example, an SMT machine line controller might provide CFX support for multiple 
machines. Within CFX, each machine is regarded as a separate endpoint with its own unique CFX handle, all serviced through   
a single network point. 
In order to avoid duplication within the industry, the recommended CFX Handle format is: 
<maker>.<model>.<serial> 
For example: “Acme.Rabbit.00001” 
4.4.2 TransactionID Many CFX messages in the CFX.Production topic share TransactionID as a common parameter. This 
parameter is used to tie events associated with a production unit as it is processed by a CFX endpoint. The TransactionlD is 
created by the CFX.Production.WorkStarted message. Any message that then uses the TransactionlD can be interpreted as   
being relevant to a specific production unit during the entire processing operation. Messages may also be sent after the CFX. 
Production. WorkCompleted message using the TransactionlD, in the case, for example, time was taken by the endpoint to 
prepare data about the production unit without blocking the operation of the machine. See Figure 4-2. 
 
Figure 4-2 The CFX TransactionlD 
4.5 CFX Message Envelope All C messages are transmitted together with a formatted envelope that is in addition to the 
message itself. The envelope contains information regarding the message, including the sender and intended receiver of the 
message. 
Table 4-3 describes the information contained within a CFX envelope. 
  


===== PAGE 10 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
10 
Table 4-3 CFX Message Envelope 
Field Type Description 
MessageName String The full name of the CFX message contained within the transmission (i.e., 
CFX.Production.WorkStarted). 
Version String The version of the CFX message contained within the payload of this transmission. This is the 
version number (revision) of this published standard. 
Timestamp Date-
Time 
The date and time when the event associated with this CFX message took place, rather than the 
time the transmission is sent. 
UniquelD GUID 
A globally unique ID used to identify the message. This ID is used to ensure messages are not 
processed more than once. It is also used in cases where the receiver needs to identify the specific 
message that is being replied to. 
Source String The CFX Handle of the creator/publisher of this message. 
Target String For request/response type messages, this is the CFX Handle of the endpoint to which the message 
is intended to be received. 
RequestID GUID 
For request/response type messages, this is a globally unique ID which identifies a specific 
request/ response pairing. Each request/response pairing will have a unique and matching 
RequestID. 
Attachments Array When message attachments are present, they shall be described in this attachments array.  If no 
attachments are present the array may either be empty or the field may be omitted entirely. 
4.6 Operator Information Many CFX messages and data structures contain operator information. Depending on local 
legislation and customer company policy, restrictions may be placed on the level of detail of personal information that may be 
captured and/or exchanged using CFX messaging. All endpoints are responsible for enabling through configuration the level of 
personal details such that any legal or policy requirements can be met. 
4.7 CFX Endpoint Configuration  There are several elements that require configuration for any CFX endpoint. Ideally, an 
intuitive user interface should be provided at the endpoint, which allows the user of the endpoint to enter and modify CFX 
configuration data. Configuration shall include: 
1) The CFX handle of the endpoint; example: Acme.Rabbit.0001 
2) FriendlyName: A short name for easy reference to the endpoint; example: SMD Printer 5 
3) RequestNetworkURI: The network address / URI to be used for requests to this endpoint; example: amqp://host55:5688/ 
4) RequestTargetAddress: The AMQP 1.0 target address to be used for requests to this endpoint; example: /queue/SN23123 
5) UniqueIdentifier: The barcode, radio-frequency identification (RFID) or other unique identifier that is used to identify this 
machine/endpoint; example: Line 1-4.Acme.Rabbit 
6) Restriction of operator personal information in line with local legislative and customer policy. 
7) For each event channel to which the endpoint will publish events and broadcast requests, the configuration shall include: 
    a. The network address (URI) of the target broker or system. For secure, encrypted communications over AMQP 1.0, the    
URI will typically use the amqps:// protocol prefix, and TCP port 5671 (instead of the amqp:// prefix, and TCP port 5672,   
which is used for unencrypted communication). 
    b. The AMQP 1.0 target address to which messages will be directed (typically identifies an exchange on the target broker, 
though other types of targets may also be used). 
    c. If authentication is required to communicate with the target system, the end-user must be able to configure the username  
and password of an account authorized on the target system to publish messages. 
    Note: When using authentication, encrypted AMOPS (TLS/SSL Encrypted AMQP) should be utilized as well. Otherwise, 
passwords may be transmitted across the network in plain text format. 
  

===== PAGE 11 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
11 
    d. The CFX topics that shall be published to this channel (end user may enable/disable each supported topic selectively). 
Additionally, for all enabled topics, end users may also enable/disable the publication of specific CFX messages within        
those topics. 
    e. The selection of whether Level 4 exact traceability data (as defined by IPC-1782) is sent by the machine. Where capable, 
this selection can result in a far greater amount of data to be created and sent by the machines, the overhead of which may       
not be required in all cases. 
8) For each subscription channel from which the endpoint will receive broadcast responses (and perhaps events published by 
other endpoints), the configuration shall include: 
    a. The network address (URI) of the source broker or system. For secure, encrypted communications over AMQP 1.0, the  
URI will typically use the amqps:// protocol prefix, and TCP port 5671 (instead of the amqp:// prefix, and TCP port 5672,   
which is used for unencrypted communication). 
    b. The AMQP 1.0 source address from which messages are to be received (typically identifies a queue on the source broker, 
though other types of sources may also be used). 
    c. If authentication is required to communicate with the target system, the end user needs to be able to configure the   
username and password of an account authorized on the target system to publish messages. 
    NOTE: When using authentication, encrypted AMQPS (TLS/SSL Encrypted AMQP) should be utilized as well. Otherwise, 
passwords may be transmitted across the network in plain text format. 
4.7.1 Specific CFX Endpoint Configuration Addresses CFX also includes direct send (request) and response messages that can    
be targeted specifically at another CFX endpoint without the use of the broker. An example of this case is where a closed-loop 
communication is set up between specific machines on the line, where data are exchanged between machines directly. Perhaps 
an endpoint performing solder paste inspection (SPI) wants to direct a command to the upstream stencil printer to perform a 
stencil clean operation. To accommodate this, the SPI machine would need to allow end-users to configure the Request URI 
(network address) and Request AMQP Target Address of the appropriate stencil printer to which it should direct the clean   
stencil request/command. 
Another example would be the case in which an endpoint wishes to validate production units with an upper-level factory control 
system before commencing work on a particular unit. The upper-level system may determine that this unit has skipped a critical 
step in the process and should not be processed at the endpoint at this time. In this case, the endpoint would need to allow end-
users to configure the Request URI (network address) and Request AMQP Target Address of the upper-level factory control 
system to which validation requests should be made. 
If an endpoint is capable of making different types of requests, it may be necessary to configure multiple targets for each type   
of request. For example, stencil clean requests go to one target (the stencil printer), while unit validation requests go to a 
different target (the upper-level control system). 
For each endpoint to which request/response messages will be sent, the configuration shall include the following information: 
1) The CFX handle of the target endpoint to which requests shall be directed. 
2) The network address (URI) of the target endpoint. For secure, encrypted communications over AMQP 1.0, the URI will 
typically use the amqps:// protocol prefix, and TCP port 5671 (instead of the amqp:// prefix, and TCP port 5672, which is     
used for unencrypted communication). 
3) The AMQP 1.0 target address to which requests will be directed. 
4) If authentication is required to communicate with the target system, the end-user needs to be able to configure the username 
and password of an account authorized on the target system to publish messages. 
NOTE: When using authentication, encrypted AMQPS (TLS/SSL Encrypted AMOP) should be utilized as well. Otherwise, 
passwords may be transmitted across the network in plain text format. 
4.8 Message Attachments Starting with IPC-2591, Version 1.5, messages are allowed to have attachments. An attachment is      
a data file containing additional information relevant to the CFX message to which it is attached but not transmitted inside of  
the JSON message itself. The primary intended purpose of message attachments is to permit the transfer of large amounts of 
tabular data along with CFX messages without requiring that the data be converted to JSON format. In keeping with the CFX 
concept of fully standardizing all messages, message attachments shall not contain arbitrary or vendor-defined content. Instead, 
each attachment shall conform to a defined schema. 
  

===== PAGE 12 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
12 
4.8.1 Specifying Message Attachments When files are attached to a CFX message, the Attachments property of the CFX 
envelope shall be present and contain a nonempty array, in which each entry in the array describes one attachment. The format 
of these entries shall be as defined in Table 4-4. 
Table 4-4: Format of Attachments Array Entries 
Field Type Description 
MimeType String The mime type of the attachment file. Only supported mime types as specified in this standard 
may be attached. 
AttachmentType String 
The standardized attachment type that is being sent as defined in this standard and supporting 
materials. Only supported attachment types shall be sent. The attachment type is equivalent to a 
dynamic structure in the CFX format in that it describes the contents of the attachment in a fully 
standardized way. 
TransferMode String 
The literal string "InBand" or "OutOfBand" , InBand signifies that the attachments directly 
follow the main CFX message envelope in a multipart/mixed mime format as described in 4.8.2. 
OutOfBand signifies that the attachment is not physically transferred with the CFX message and 
may be downloaded from the location specified in AttachmentURL. 
AttachmentURL String This shall be null unless TransferMode equals "OutOfBand", in which case it shall be a URL that 
can be used to download the attachment file. 
 As described in Table 4-4, attachments may be sent either in-band or out-of-band. Implementations should use in-band transfer 
unless the attachment file size is so large that in-band transfer is not feasible. 
4.8.2 In-band Message Attachments In-band message attachments are sent in a manner similar to attachments in electronic mail 
(email). They are included by encoding the overall CFX message in multipart/mixed mime format as described in RFC-1341 
with the first part of the multipart message being the main CFX message body in JSON format and any attachments following 
as subsequent parts of the multipart message. The following requirements apply: 
1) Unlike RFC-1341, the mime type of an attachment shall not itself be a multipart format (i.e., nested multipart messages are 
not allowed). 
2) Every part of the multipart message shall have a content-type header set with the same string value as the corresponding 
MimeType property in the Attachments array. 
3) All attachment parts of the multipart message shall additionally have an x-cfx-attachment-type header set to the same string 
value as the corresponding AttachmentType property in the Attachments array. 
4) The order of In-band attachments shall match the order of entries in the Attachments array. 
5) If Out-of-band attachments are present they shall occur after any In-Band entries in the Attachments array. 
6) The first part of the multipart message shall be the CFX message envelope and shall have its content-type header set to: 
application/json; charset=''utf-8". 
7) The content-type header of the AMQP message itself shall be multipart/mixed with a boundary as described in Table 4-4. 
Listing 4-1 provides an example of a multipart CFX message with two in-band attachments. The first attachment contains 
component offset measurements encoded in CSV format, and the second attachment contains solder paste measurements 
encoded in Apache Parquet format. 
  

===== PAGE 13 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
13 
Listing 4-1: 
AMQP Header 
content-type: multipart/mixed; boundary="ASCII_BOUNDARY_CHARACTERS" 
AMQP Message Body 
--ASCII_BOUNDARY_CHARACTERS 
content-type:application/json;charset="utf-8" 
{ 
 ... CFXEnvelope in JSON Format 
} 
--ASCII_BOUNDARY_CHARACTERS 
content-type: text/csv; charset="utf-8" 
x-cfx-attachment-type: PCBInspection.OffsetMeasurement 
...offset measurement data in csv format 
--ASCII_BOUNDARY_CHARACTERS 
content-type: application/vnd.apache.parquet 
x-cfx-attachment-type: SolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteMeasurement 
...solder paste measurements in apache Parquet format 
--ASCII_BOUNARY_CHARACTERS--- 
4.8.3 Out-of-Band Attachments Attachments sent out of band are indicated by using the OutOfBand TransferMode in the 
Attachments array. These attachments are not physically sent as part of the CFX message itself.  Instead, the AttachmentURL 
property is used to specify a location and method by which the attachment may be downloaded. AttachmentURL shall be 
interpreted in the same way as the FileURL property used for large file transfers. Implementations should prefer in-band over 
out-of-band attachments when possible. 
4.8.4 Supported Tabular Data Formats For Message Attachments Attachments are limited to sending tabular data. The 
following formats are supported for sending tabular data via attachments: 
ㆍCSV format - The character set shall be utf-8 and the mime type shall be set to text/csv. CSV files shall have an initial   
header row and the column header entries and order shall correspond exactly with the column definitions as given in    
Supported Attachment Types. 
ㆍApache Parquet format - Implementations shall support at least the snappy compression mode. The file schema shall 
correspond exactly with the column definitions and order as given in Supported Attachment Types. 
A reference specification on the parquet file format may be found at https://github.com/apache/parquet-format. 
When sending attachments in Parquet format, the following logical parquet data types shall be used depending on the logical 
column type of the attachment (see definition at https://github.com/apache/parquet-format/blob/master/LogicalTypes.md): 
• Integer: INT_64 
• Numeric: DOUBLE 
• String:STRING 
• Boolean:BOOLEAN 
• Date/Time: TIMESTAMP (isAdjustedToUTC=true, unit=MICROS). The interpretation of this type is that datetimes shall 
be sent in UTC time zone with a precision of microseconds. 
• Guid:GUID 
A tabular data attachment may be sent in any supported tabular data format.Implementations shall support receiving 
attachments in any supported format. Implementations may support sending attachments in only a subset of supported formats. 
4.9 Supported Message Attachment Types In keeping with the CFX standard philosophy of fully specifying the content of 
messages, all attachments shall correspond with a supported attachment type. This section describes the currently supported 
attachment types. Each attachment type is associated with a corresponding CFX dynamic structure. The interpretation of each 
column in the attachment shall be the same as the interpretation of the field with the same name inside of the dynamic structure. 
Any field which is nullable in the dynamic structure may be null in the attachment as well. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
14 
4.9.1 SolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteMeasurement This attachment type corresponds with the CFX dynamic         
structure CFX.Structures.SolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteMeasurement. The AttachmentType shall be specified as 
SolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteMeasurement. 
Table 4-5 specifies the columns definitions for the attachment. 
Table 4-5 Columns for SolderPasteMeasurement Attachment Type 
Field Type 
UnitPositionNumber Integer 
Unitldentifier String 
CRDs String 
MeasurementName String 
Result Integer 
TimeRecorded DateTime 
A Numeric 
AR Numeric 
DX Numeric 
DY Numeric 
EA Numeric 
EV ol Numeric 
EX Numeric 
EY Numeric 
EZ Numeric 
PX Numeric 
PY Numeric 
RXY Numeric 
V ol Numeric 
X Numeric 
Y Numeric 
Z Numeric 
 4.9.2 PCBInspection.OffsetMeasurement This attachment type corresponds with the CFX dynamic structure 
CFX.Structures. PCBInspection.OffsetMeasurments. The AttachmentType shall be specified as 
PCBInspection.OffsetMeasurement. 
Table 4-6 specifies the column definitions for the attachment. 

===== PAGE 15 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
15 
 
Table 4-6 Columns for OffsetMeasurement Attachment Type 
Field Type 
UnitPositionNumber Integer 
Unitldentifier String 
CRDs String 
MeasurementName String 
Result Integer 
TimeRecorded DateTime 
DX Numeric 
DY Numeric 
DZ Numeric 
RXY Numeric 
RZX Numeric 
RZY Numeric 
4.10 Messages Supporting Attachments Implementations 
shall only include attachments on the supported message 
types defined in this section and shall only include the 
indicated supported attachment types for each message type. 
4.10.1 CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected 
Attachments Implementations shall include only the 
following attachment types: 
ㆍSolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteMeasurement 
ㆍPCBInspection.OffsetMeasurement 
If a given measurement type is included as an attachment, the 
main message body shall not repeat that measurem ent 
inside of any  Measurements array. All measurements of a 
given type shall be included in a single attachment. For 
example, if a UnitsInspected  message from a Solder Paste 
Inspection machine contains anattachment of type SolderPasteMeasurement, then no measurement  structures of type 
CFX.Structures. SolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteMeasurement or 
CFX.Structures.SolderPasteInspection.InspectionMeasurementLean shall be present inside the main body of the message and 
all such measurements shall instead be contained inside of a single SolderPasteMeasurement attachment. 
The purpose of efficient tabular data attachments is to permit including more data than is technically feasible when it is encoded 
inside the JSON message body. Therefore, implementations including measurement attachments should include all available 
measurements, not just, for example, those for failed inspections. 
4.11 CFX Message Recorder CFX messages contain detailed information on the activities performed by the endpoints that sent 
them. Passively recording an archive of these messages can be a simple and effective way of capturing these data for a variety of 
uses including traceability, performance monitoring, process control or data visualization.                                         
Since the CFX standard uses the AMQP 1.0 messaging protocol and JSON encoding, it is possible to create a generic     
recording program that can archive all CFX traffic in a factory. An open-source CFX Recorder program provided at 
https://github.com/IPCConnectedFactoryExchange/CFXRecorder can be used for this purpose or as a starting point for  building 
more advanced functionality. The CFX Recorder connects to an AMQP broker and passively records all CFX        traffic 
observed to a series of archive files. These files can then be postprocessed as desired for any purpose, such as         loading into a 
database or analytics environment. While the exact behavior of the CFX Recorder program is configurable,         its default 
behavior is to save one archive file every hour with the filename name. (timestamp, where timestamp is the Unix epoch 
timestamp in seconds when the file was created. 


===== PAGE 16 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
16 
The CFX Recorder program will be updated periodically with new functionality to keep pace with future CFX standard versions 
and as an open source project, contributions are welcome. 
5 CFX OPERATIONAL MODELING 
As part of the message content standardization, there are many aspects of the product and assembly operations that require 
consistency. This enables different endpoints to understand and transfer related production and resource performance events in 
an efficient way. 
5.1 Equipment State Model SEMI E10 (see SEMI E10-0814E) and SEMI E58 (see SEMI E58-0703) together define a model 
to measure equipment performance. This equipment state model consists of six basic equipment states, as shown in Figure 5-1. 
In addition, SEMI E58 defines substates to further detail equipment state, represented as follows: 
Productive “PRD” (1000): 
A period of time when the equipment is performing its intended function. Possible SEMI E58 substates are: 
ㆍ1000 “PRD” 
ㆍ1100 “PRD\Regular work” 
ㆍ1200 “PRD\Work for third parties” 
ㆍ1300 “PRD\Rework” 
ㆍ1400 “PRD\Engineering runs” 
Standby “SBY” (2000): 
A period of time, other than nonscheduled time, when the equipment is in a condition to perform its intended function, but it is 
not operated. Possible SEMI E58 substates are: 
ㆍ2000 “SBY” 
ㆍ2100 “SBY\No operator” 
ㆍ2200 “SBY\'No product” 
ㆍ2201 “SBY\No product\Blocked” which relates to the condition where the product cannot be moved out of the machine.       
- Added vl.1 
ㆍ2202 “SBY\No product\Starved” which relates to a machine process being stopped due to lack of product arrival.   - Added 
vl.1 
ㆍ2300 “SBY\No support tool” 
ㆍ2400 “SBY\Associated cluster module down” 
ㆍ 2500 “SBY\No host” 
Engineering “ENG” (3000): 
A period of time when the equipment is in a condition to perform its intended function (no equipment or process problem   
exists) but is operated to conduct engineering experiments. Possible SEMI E58 substates are: 
ㆍ3000 “ENG” 
ㆍ3100 “ENG\Process experiments” 
ㆍ3200 “ENG\Equipment experiments” 
ㆍ3300­3900 Reserved 
Scheduled Downtime “SDT” (4000): 
A period of time when the equipment is not available to perform its intended function due to planned downtime events. Possible 
SEMI E58 substates are: 
  

===== PAGE 17 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
17 
ㆍ4000 “SDT” 
ㆍ4100 “SDT\User maintenance delay” 
ㆍ4200 “SDT\Supplied maintenance delay” 
ㆍ4300 “SDT\Preventive maintenance” 
ㆍ4400 “SDT\Change of consumables” 
ㆍ4500 “SDT\Setup” 
ㆍ4600 “SDT\Production test” 
ㆍ4700 “SDT\Facilities-related” 
Unscheduled Downtime “USD” (5000) : 
A period of time when the equipment is not in a condition to perform its intended function due to unplanned downtime events. 
Possible SEMI E58 substates are: 
ㆍ5000 “USD” 
ㆍ5100 “USD\User maintenance delay” 
ㆍ5200 “USD\Supplied maintenance delay” 
ㆍ5300 “USD\Repair” 
ㆍ5400 “USD\Out-of-spec input material” 
ㆍ5500 “USD\Change of consumables” 
ㆍ 5600 “USD\Facilities-related” 
Nonscheduled Time “NST” (6000): 
A period of time when the equipment is not scheduled to be utilized in production, such as unworked shifts, weekends and 
holidays (including shutdown and startup). Possible SEMI E58 substates are: 
ㆍ6000 “NST” 
ㆍ6100 “NST\Unworked shifts” 
ㆍ6200 “NST\Equipment installation” 
ㆍ6300 “NST\Equipment modifications” 
ㆍ6400 “NST\Off-line training” 
ㆍ 6500 “NST\Shutdown and Startup” 
These states apply mainly to automated and manual production processes, though many states can also be used (i.e., for  
transactional operations such as logistics stations). The “full thousands” states (i.e., 1000...6000) represent the SEMI E10 
machine states; for each machine state there is a set of SEMI E58 substates to further qualify the SEMI E10 machine state.  
Some SEMI E58 substates may not be relevant for certain station types. In turn, the list of SEMI E58 substates may  be 
extended vendor-specific, which are not supported by CFX. 
5.2 Station Fault Event Model  Fault events reported by stations are categorized according to Table 5-1. 
  

===== PAGE 18 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
18 
Table 5-1 Station Event Fault Model 
Fault Event Classification (Severity) Fault Occurred Requires 
Fault Cleared ? 
Implies State Change Indicates Dangerous Condition 
Alarm Y Y Y 
Error Y Y N 
Warning Y N N 
Information N N N 
The meaning of each event classification is as follows: 
ㆍAlarm: Sent when dangerous conditions occur that can cause danger to either people or equipment, if not addressed 
immediately. 
ㆍError: Events which cause the equipment to malfunction and not operate correctly. 
ㆍWarning: Events which do not cause any immediate problems. 
ㆍInformation: Events of potential interest that occur on the equipment, which are deemed necessary to record or log for any 
purpose. 
Notes: 
ㆍAll events that occur are required to be cleared, except Information events. 
ㆍAlarm and Error events usually occur together with a change of state of the operation of the endpoint. It may be, however, that 
multiple events messages can describe a single state change. 
ㆍCFX.ResourcePerformance.FaultOceured messages are used for Alarm, Error and Warning messages, whereas a 
CFX.ResourcePerformance.LogEntryRecorded message is used for Information messages. 
5.3  Production Unit Architecture  Many CFX messages are related to events involving production units. In almost all cases, 
CFX messages allow for one or more production units to be associated with a process, to allow multiple production units that  
are positioned together (i.e., on a jig or carrier) to be processed at the same time. Unless stated otherwise in this standard, 
production unit refers to either a single production unit or a group of production units that are being transacted together. See 
Figure 5-2 for examples of production unit groupings. 
5.3.1 Production Unit Data Population The PrimaryIdentifier (example, “PCB00001”) and UnitIdentifer fields (examples, 
UNIT00001 and UNIT00002) shall be populated as shown in Table 5-2. Figure 5-2 provides examples which illustrate each case 
from Table 5-2. 
Table 5-2 PrimaryIdentifier and UnitIdentifer Fields 
Case PrimaryIdentifier UnitIdentifer 
1)Printed board with no main barcode and only one unit (standalone printed 
board) 
Not required Not required 
2)Printed board with no main barcode and multiple units without individual 
barcode 
Not required Not required 
3)Printed board with main barcode and only one unit Required Required, same as 
PrimaryIdentifier 
4) Printed board with several units and a single barcode in the root pattern Required Not required 
5) Printed board with several units and no barcode in the root pattern but a 
barcode in the unit patterns 
Required, same   
as the first 
UnitIdentifier 
Required for each 
Unit 
6) Printed board with several units and a barcode in the root pattern and in the 
unit patterns 
Required Required for each 
Unit 

===== PAGE 19 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
19 
 
Figure 5-2 Examples of PrimaryIdentifier of UnitIdentifer Cases 
Figure note: Number 1 through 6 align with case numbers in Table 5-2. 
 
Figure 5-3 Examples of Groupings of Production Units 
A - Single-board printed board panel, one ID     C - Multiple-board printed board panel, single ID 
B - Multiple-board printed board panel, individual IDs    D - Multiple boards/panels on a carrier, single ID 


===== PAGE 20 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
20 
In the case of panelized printed boards, it is very important to maintain data integrity during the various production operations 
such that data are correctly associated back to the correct production unit ID. There are many cases in which a single unique ID 
is used to represent all the individual production units that exist on a board or are in a carrier. To create a common 
understanding of how to refer to boards within a multiple-board panel, the following rule is used when determining which 
element of the multiple-board panel is being addressed. 
The primary view of the printed board is as presented by the computer-aided design (CAD) data model in Figure 5-4, which 
shows the panelized board being made up of individual images, commonly called circuits, which are referred to in CFX as 
production units. The definitions of primary and secondary surfaces of printed boards follow IPC-T-50 and correspond directly 
to the top and bottom sides of the printed board following terminology commonly used throughout printed board assembly 
equipment. 
This defines the original view in terms of the position of each of the panelized production units. In this orientation, it is assumed 
that x dimension is depending on  the surface: 
ㆍFor a Primary surface, x dimension is left to right, with x increasing to the right. 
ㆍFor a Secondary surface, x dimension is right to left, with x increasing to the left. 
The y dimension is assumed to be from bottom to top, increasing upwards. Rotation is assumed to be clockwise. It is also 
assumed that the panel is flipped in x dimension. It is recommended to refer to x and y coordinate of the production unit origin  
as defined in IPC-2581, otherwise as it is known to the endpoint. 
The rule to determine the relative identity of each production unit uses the x and y coordinate and rotation of each, through a 
process of sorting, as follows: 
A. Sort by rotation, low (0) to high (359) 
B. Sort by y coordinate (high to low) 
C. Sort by x coordinate (low to high) 
See Figure 5-5. 
In messages related to data for a production unit, where production units are grouped together onto a panel or in a carrier for 
processing, this rule is followed. Data within CFX messages will refer to specific Unit Locations. All CFX endpoints shall 
interpret the relative positions of production units using this rule, as applied to any variation that may exist in the operation of  
the endpoint itself. 
5.3.2 Production Unit Status There are three status conditions of a production unit, defined as follows: 
ㆍPass: The production unit has completed all prior operations without defects, or with all defects resolved. 
ㆍFail: The production unit has not passed the preceding operation, though it may be recoverable. The production unit with 
this status needs to be routed to a suitable recovery station. 
ㆍScrap: The production unit has not passed the preceding operation and has been deemed unrepairable, either at the station 
that discovered the defect or the station where the defect was confirmed. 
ㆍSkip: The production unit did not require processing.  
In cases in which multiple production units are held in a carrier (i.e., on a panel), the status of the panel is related to the statuses 
of each production unit contained. 
The work order relates to the summation of the status of each of the production units that are identifies as part of the work 
order. It can be expected that the work order quality is variable, due to scrapped production units, as well as additional ones 
introduced to compensate for scrap or to anticipate scrap. 
Figure 5-4 Panelized Printed Board(Top view) Figure 5-5 CFX Unit Locations Identified on Multiple- Board 
Panel(Top view) 


===== PAGE 21 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
21 
5.3.3 Production Endpoint Decision-Making Categories The determination of each production unit status is made by stations 
according to the following categories: 
ㆍProcessing Station: Performs activities to build products, does not change Production Quantity, may result in Pass or Scrap 
status determinations 
ㆍInspection or Test Station / Hybrid Processing & Inspection: Performs activities that include product inspection; may 
result in Pass, Fail or Scrap determinations 
ㆍReview / Repair Station: Determines whether a failed production unit can be corrected to become passed or  if it should be 
scrapped; may result in Pass or Scrap determinations 
Inspection stations, Hybrid Processing & Inspection Stations and Review/Repair stations should use the 
CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected message to reflect the status of each production unit with “OverallResult” 
and with the appropriate “Verification” result: 
ㆍNotVerifiedYet The defect which was detected is not classified. 
ㆍDefectConfirmed  The defect which was detected is confirmed. 
ㆍ DefectRejected The defect which was detected is rejected "FalseFail". 
ㆍ DefectAccepted The defect which was detected is rejected "FalseFail", but corrective action for SMT process shall       
be initiated. - Added v1.5 
ㆍDefectRepaired  The defect which was detected is repaired. - Added v1.5 
ㆍDefectClosed   The defect which was detected is repaired and successful repair confirmed. -Added v1.5 
Production stations should reflect the status using the CFX.Production.WorkCompleted message, indicating the status using    
the “Result” property. 
5.3.4 Examples of Production Unit Status This section describes examples of production unit status transitions, based on a 
panel containing four production units (as circuits), as it passes through different production stations. 
5.3.4.1 Processing Station In this example, a panel passes through a Processing Station, in which all work is completed as 
expected, with no issues. See Figure 5-6. 
  
Figure 5-6 Panel Processing Example - No Defects Found  
 
5.3.4.2 Processing Station Creating Scrap In this example, a panel passes through a Processing Station, in which for some 
reason one of the production units experiences an unrecoverable issue. This causes the station to determine that Production unit 
#3 is scrapped, and the scrap status is assigned to that unit. The production quantity associated with the panel reduces to three   
at this point. See Figure 5-7.  
A - Arrival Status 
      Panel status = Pass 
      Pass quantity = 4 
      Scrap quantity = 0 
      Fail quantity = 0  
B - Processing Station 
      Process quantity = 4 
C - Leaving Status 
      Panel status = Pass 
      Pass quantity = 4 
      Scrap quantity = 0 
      Fail quantity = 0 

===== PAGE 22 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
22 
  
Figure 5-7 Panel Processing Example - One Production Unit Scrapped 
 
5.3.4.3 Inspection Station Identifying Potential Defect In this example, the previous panel passes through an Inspection 
Station, at which for production unit #2 the inspection process creates a determination that a potential defect has occurred. The 
status of production unit 2 is set to "failed", a status which his inherited by the panel, as the panel now needs to be assessed by a 
Review/Repair Station. Note that the process quantity by the station is reduced to 3, due to the previously scrapped production 
unit #3. See Figure 5-8. 
  
Figure 5-8 Panel Inspection Example - One Production Unit Failure 
 
5.3.4.4 Review/Repair Station Resolving Failed Production Unit In this example, the previous panel passes through a 
Review /Repair Station, at which it is determined that the issue with production unit #2 has been resolved. The change in status 
does not make any direct implication as to the subsequent routing of the panel (i.e,, to repeat the previous inspection). See 
Figure 5-9. 
  
A - Arrival Status 
      Panel status = Pass 
      Pass quantity = 4 
      Scrap quantity = 0 
      Fail quantity = 0  
B - Processing Station 
      Process quantity = 4 
 
 
 
C - Leaving Status 
      Panel status = Pass 
      Pass quantity = 3 
      Scrap quantity = 1 
      Fail quantity = 0 
A - Arrival Status 
      Panel status = Pass 
      Pass quantity = 3 
      Scrap quantity = 1 
      Fail quantity = 0  
B - Processing Station 
      Process quantity = 3 
 
 
 
C - Leaving Status 
      Panel status = Fail 
      Pass quantity = 2 
      Scrap quantity = 1 
      Fail quantity = 1 

===== PAGE 23 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
23 
  
Figure 5-9 Panel Review/Repair Example - One Production Unit Repaired 
 
5.3.4.5 Review/Repair Station Scrapping Failed Production Unit This example illustrates the alternate scenario at the 
Review /Repair Station, in which the determination is production unit #2 is scrapped. In this specific case, the Review/Repair 
process has decided to scrap the whole Panel, even though the two remaining production units were recorded as passes. See 
Figure 5-10. 
  
Figure 5-10 Panel Review/Repair Example - Whole Panel Scrapped 
 
5.4 Production Station Process Model CFX messages are used to indicate the various elements of processing of a production 
unit within a station. The stages are defined as shown in Figure 5-11. 
  
Figure 5-11 CFX Production Station Process Model 
A - Arrival Status 
      Panel status = Fail 
      Pass quantity = 2 
      Scrap quantity = 1 
      Fail quantity = 1  
B - Processing Station 
      Process quantity = 1 
 
 
 
C - Leaving Status 
      Panel status = Pass 
      Pass quantity = 3 
      Scrap quantity = 1 
      Fail quantity = 0 
A - Arrival Status 
      Panel status = Fail 
      Pass quantity = 2 
      Scrap quantity = 1 
      Fail quantity = 1  
B - Processing Station 
      Process quantity = 1 
 
 
 
C - Leaving Status 
      Panel status = Scrap 
      Pass quantity = 0 
      Scrap quantity = 4 
      Fail quantity = 0 

===== PAGE 24 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
24 
The breakdown of the elements is as follows: 
ㆍArrival: The position to which the production unit arrives to be processed. 
ㆍDepart: The position to which the production unit is taken after all processing by the station has been completed. 
ㆍLane: The number of processing paths that can be performed by the station simultaneously, either synchronously or 
asynchronously. Each lane represents a flow of the production unit through the various stages of processing. Most simple 
stations will have just one lane, though there can be two or even three in the case, for example, of SMT placement equipment. 
Events can be specifically designated as being applicable to a specific lane or all lanes. 
ㆍStage:  The number of added-value operational working processes that each production unit will go through within the  
station. There is a transfer operation, which is usually a physical movement of the production unit between stages. Most     
simple stations will have just one stage, though there can be two or more. Events can be specifically designated as being 
applicable to a specific stage or all stages. Different activities can be performed within each stage, details of which can also      
be individually reported. 
For each machine, the number of stages shall be fixed according to the machine core configuration. Because stages may not     
be used in all cases of production, unused stages shall be reported as pass-through. It is not necessary to create a stage for    
every position where a product may stop within the machine; rather, it is related to the associated task and tools. 
ㆍTransfer: The physical movement of a production unit from one stage to another. A production unit can be waiting during      
a transfer. The transfer itself is not a defined stage of the process model but represents the time/motion needed to transition 
between stages.  
This station model applies to all forms of production processing, whether by automated, semiautomated or manual operations  
for all types of operations including assembly, inspection and test. 
 
6 CFX TOPICS AND DYNAMIC STRUCTURES 
There are a multitude of different processes that make up the complete manufacturing operation. These consist of automated, 
semiautomated and manual operations of many different types, performing many different functions, from many different 
vendors, including homegrown machine processes, which are common, for example, in the areas of functional test (FCT). Each 
type of production process performs operations, creating different kinds of data, with some machines operating as hybrids, 
performing two or more different types of operations (i.e., SMT placement with built-in automated optical inspection (AOI)). 
Looking across the entire gamut of processes, there are commonalities of technologies and functions, as well as natural 
groupings of information that need to be communicated. The approach taken with CFX is to create a structure of messaging 
based on logical topics, each with subtopics that define increasing levels of detail. These topics and level combinations are 
analogous to a set of building blocks, such that the complete communication requirement of any type or model of machine can 
be constructed using an appropriate combination of CFX topic building blocks. 
Processes that receive CFX data can then easily filter messages that are relevant using the building block topic methodology.  
For example, quality management software may wish to access results from AOI technology. This data may come not only   
from an AOI machine, but it may also be a part of an SMT placer hybrid combination. The quality management software does 
not need to care about any complex understanding of the machine configuration itself; it simply receives messages that belong  
to the specified building block. These building blocks allow the gathering and usage of data across disparate machines and 
platforms with relative ease. The definition of new machines and processes, as automation continues to evolve, can be created 
using existing standard building blocks, bringing a high degree of future proofing. 
6.1 Hierarchy of CFX Topics CFX topics are organized into a hierarchical structure. A set of defined messages are defined as 
part of each topic. The list of topics and their relationship are provided below, which all exist beneath the CFX Root Level: 
CFX (Root Level) 
ㆍCFX.InformationSystem (Level 1) 
     - CFX.InformationSystem.DataTransfer (Level 2) - Added v1.4 
     - CFX.InformationSystem.ProductionScheduling(Level 2) 
     - CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation(Level 2) 
     - CFX.InformationSystem.WorkOrderManagement (Level 2) 
     - CFX.InformationSystem.OperatorValidation (Level 2) - Added v1.7 

===== PAGE 25 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
25 
ㆍCFX.Maintenance (Level 1) - Addedv1.3 
ㆍCFX.Materials(Level 1) 
     - CFX.Materials.Management (Level 2) 
 。CFX.Materials.Management.MSDManagement (Level 3) 
     - CFX.Materials.Storage (Level 2) 
     - CFX.Materials.Transport (Level 2) 
ㆍCFX.Production (Level 1) 
     - CFX.Production.Application (Level 2) 
 。CFX.Production.Application.Solder(Level 3) – Removed v1.1 
     - CFX.Production.Assembly (Level 2) 
     - CFX.Production.Hermes (Level 2) – Added v1.3 
     - CFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading (Level 2) - Added v1.2 
     - CFX.Production.Processing (Level 2) 
     - CFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair (Level 2) - Addedv1.4 
     - CFX.Production.TestAndInspection (Level 2) 
ㆍCFX.ResourcePerformance (Level 1) 
     - CFX.ResourcePerformance.PressInsertion (Level 2) 
     - CFX.ResourcePerformance.SMTPlacement (Level 2) 
     - CFX.ResourcePerformance.SolderPastePrinting (Level 2) 
     - CFX.ResourcePerformance.THTInsertion (Level 2) 
ㆍCFX.Sensor (Level 1) 
     - CFX.Sensor.Identification (Level 2) 
Messages in the Root Level are used for infrastructure management and discovery. Level 1 topics separate messages out by 
generic content category, containing more generic messages. Level 2 messages contain messages with a higher degree of 
specificity and detail. Level 3 topics represent a very specific technology. When an endpoint supports a topic, support shall be 
made for any higher-level topics from which that topic is descended. Levels below selected topics to be supported may not be 
required where applications do not require the fine details of events. Endpoint applications in most cases will need to use just 
one or a small selection of topics, especially for applications that are narrow in scope. 
6.2 CFX Message Names Names of CFX messages within each topic are structured to include the hierarchy of topic names, 
separated by a period. 
6.3 CFX Structures Most CFX messages include parameters of data. As many sets of parameters are common to two or more 
messages, a structure for the common parameters is created so two or more messages can use the same structures. 
6.4 CFX Dynamic Structures  There are several cases in which a set of parameters in a structure may need to be different 
depending on the context of the message. For example, material carriers of SMT materials have different key attributes, such    
as feeders, sticks and trays, as compared to manually delivered materials, which may be in a box or bag. The use of dynamic 
structures in CFX means that in a single message, there are options for different named parameter sets, such that a single 
message can work in all cases, with just the alteration of internal structures as required. This also applies in many cases where    
a single message will describe events of many different machine types. 
In cases when using dynamic structures, there is usually a default or generic set of parameters or named structure which  
contains parameters that are general in any condition. Additional types of structures can also be added within the same message 
to represent specific parameter sets as required. 
  

===== PAGE 26 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
26 
6.5 CFX Messaging Requirements Equipment shall meet the mandatory CFX capabilities in Table6-1 according to the 
capability indicators: 
ㆍM - Required for all machines in class 
ㆍMR - Required if equipped with a barcode/RFID reader 
ㆍO - Optional capability 
ㆍBlank - Not applicable to machine class 
6.6 CFX Qualification Equipment shall meet the messaging requirements in Table 6-2 for the capabilities shown in Table 6-1  
to be listed on the IPC-CFX-2591 Qualified Products List (QPL). Upon successful qualification, the IPC-CFX-2591 QPL lists 
the qualified model, date of qualification and the vendor’s software version. 
Gateway solutions shall meet the messaging requirement in Table 6-2 for the capabilities shown in Table 6-1 to be listed on the 
IPC-CFX-2591 QOL for  the applicable equipment Endpoint Class (e.g., Stencil Printer, Solder, Reflow Oven, Solder Paste 
Inspection(SPI)). Upon successful qualification, the IPC-CFX-2591 QPL lists the qualified gateway solution device, date of  
qualification, vendor and model of equipment used for qualification and the software version for the qualified gateway and 
equipment. 
6.6.1 Declaration of Responsibility for Implementation For each qualified model  and version of a CFX-producing device or 
software endpoint on the IPC-CFX-2591 QPL, the equipment model supplier shall provide a valid and accurate declaration of 
technical diagnostic, support and troubleshooting responsibility (hereafter referred to as support) for the IPC-CFX 
implementation, declaring one of the following: 
ㆍThe equipment model supplier  accepts full responsibility for support. 
The IPC-CFX implementation being qualified generates CFX entirely natively by the equipment model supplier’s software code 
or  a host controller’s code developed by and owned by the equipment model supplier, without the use of products, components 
or technology from a third party at any point. 
ㆍThe equipment model supplier accepts full responsibility for support. 
The IPC-CFX implementation being qualified generates CFX by use of technology provided by a business entity (third party) 
other than the equipment model supplier at one or more point(s) in the path from the CFX-producing device or software endpoint 
to the CFX validation website. 
ㆍThe third party accepts full responsibility for support. 
The IPC-CFX implementation being qualified generates CFX by use of technology provided by a business entity (third party) 
other than the equipment model supplier at one or more point(s) in the path from the CFX-producing device or software endpoint 
to the CFX validation website. 
A false or misleading declaration of responsibility shall result in the model(s) being removed from the IPC-CFX-2591 QPL.  

===== PAGE 27 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
27 
Table 6-1 CFX Capability Requirements by Equipment Type 
Category Capability 
Endpoint Class 
Generic 
Equipment 
Endpoint 
Automated 
Labeler/ 
Laser 
Marker 
Stencil 
Printer 
Solder  
Paste 
Inspection 
(SPI) 
SMT 
Mounter 
(Pick   
and 
Place) 
Automated 
Optical 
Inspection 
(AOI/AXI) 
Solder 
Reflow 
Oven 
Reflow 
Profiling 
Selective 
Solder 
Through-
Hole 
Component 
Insertion 
(THT) 
Test 
Equipment 
Conformal 
Coating Cleaning 
Hand 
Soldering 
Wave 
Soldering 
CFX Core Core 
Communications M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M 
Track and 
Trace 
WIP Tracking M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M 
WIP Identification MR M MR MR MR MR MR MR MR MR MR MR MR MR MR 
Unit Initialization ○ M ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○  ○ 
Panelized Unit 
Initialization ○ M ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○  ○ 
Operator  
Tracking ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Equipment Data 
Tracking ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○  ○ 
Unit 
Disqualification/ 
Scrapping 
○ ○              
Detailed Activity 
Tracking ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Material Trace 
with Internal 
Setup 
○ ○ ○  ○  ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Exact Material 
Trace with 
Internal Setup 
○    MR     MR      
Exact Material 
Trace with 
External Setup 
○    M     M      
Tool Trace MR ○ MR  ○   ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Process 
Interlocking 
Process Route 
Validation ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Unit Status 
Validation ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Unit Trace 
Validation ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Recipes 
Basic Recipe 
Visibility M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M 
Remote Recipe 
Selection ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Remote Recipe 
Management ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Setup 
Validation 
Internal Setup 
Validation ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Online Setup     ○     ○      
External Setup 
Validation ○ ○ ○  ○     ○      
 
  

===== PAGE 28 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
28 
Table 6-1 CFX Capability Requirements by Equipment Type (cont.) 
Category Capability 
Endpoint Class 
Generic 
Equipment 
Endpoint 
Automated 
Labeler/ 
Laser 
Marker 
Stencil 
Printer 
Solder  
Paste 
Inspection 
(SPI) 
SMT 
Mounter 
(Pick   
and 
Place) 
Automated 
Optical 
Inspection 
(AOI/AXI) 
Solder 
Reflow 
Oven 
Reflow 
Profiling 
Selective 
Solder 
Through-
Hole 
Component 
Insertion 
(THT) 
Test 
Equipment 
Conformal 
Coating Cleaning 
Hand 
Soldering 
Wave 
Soldering 
Blocking       
and Locking 
Material Blocking 
for External     
Setup 
○ ○ ○  ○     ○    
  
Material Blocking 
for Internal       
Setup 
○ ○ ○  ○     ○    
  
Station Locking ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Personalization Unit  
Personalization     ○     ○ ○     
Station 
Information 
Station  
Performance 
Reporting 
M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M 
Advanced      
Station  
Performance 
Reporting 
○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Station 
Configuration 
Management 
○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Station  
Maintenance 
Tracking 
○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Energy 
Consumption 
Tracking 
○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 
Test and 
Inspection 
Production Unit 
Inspection    M  M          
Automated    
Optical     
Inspection (AOI/ 
AXI) 
     M        
  
AOI Component 
Offset  
Measurement 
     ○        
  
Solder Paste 
Inspection    M            
Production Unit  
Test           M     
Specialized 
Processing 
Solder Paste  
Reflow     
Processing 
      M       
  
Solder Paste  
Reflow Profiling        M        
Selective Solder 
Processing         M       
Solder Paste 
Printing   M             
Conformal    
Coating            M    
Cleaning             M   
Automated 
Labeler/Laser 
Marker 
 M            
  
Hand Soldering 
Processing              M  
Wave Soldering               M 
 
  

===== PAGE 29 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
29 
Table 6-2 Required Messages by Capability 
Capability Topic(s) Relevant Messages Notes 
Core 
Communications 
CFX Root Level Message 
See 7.1 
AreYouThereRequest/Response  
EndpointConnected  
EndpointShuttingDown  
GetEndpointinformationRequest/ 
Response  
WholsThereRequest/Response  
WIP Tracking CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
UnitsArrived  
WorkStarted  
WorkStageStarted  
WorkStageCompleted  
WorkStagePaused This message is only required if the 
endpoint/machine supports pausing and 
resuming midproduction. For endpoints 
that do not support pausing and   
resuming, this message is optional. 
WorkStageResumed This message is only required if the 
endpoint/machine supports pausing and 
resuming midproduction. For endpoints 
that do not support pausing and   
resuming, this message is optional. 
Work Completed  
UnitsDeparted  
WIP Identification CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
WorkStarted OR WorkCompleted Unit Position structure shall definitively 
identify the barcode/ ID of each individual 
unit in the transaction or the barcode/ID  
of the carrier/panel and a numeric ID for 
each individual unit in the transaction 
based on the CFX sorting convention. 
Unit Initialization CFX.Producion 
See 7.5 
UnitsInitialized 
 
Panelized Unit 
Initialization 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
Unitsinitialized For panelized assemblies and carriers, 
message shall indlude identifier of 
carrier/panel, as well as identifiers of all 
units within the carrier/panel. 
Operator Tracking CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
OperatorActivated  
OperatorDeactivated  
Equipment Data 
Tracking 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
ReadingsRecorded 
 
Unit Disqualification/ 
Scrapping 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
UnitsDisqualified 
 
Detailed Activity 
Tracking 
CFX.Producion 
See 7.5 
ActivitiesExecuted All Equipment should support Activity 
derived classes in CFX.Structures. 
SMT Placement Equipment should  
support Activity derived classes in 
CFX.Structures.SMTPlacement. 
Selective Solder Equipment should  
support Activity derived classes in 
CFX.Structures.SolderApplication. 
Material Trace with 
Internal Setup 
CFX.Production.Assembly 
See 7.5.2 
Materialsinstalled Uniqueldentifier and InternalPartNumber 
properties of Material property shall       
be populated with actual/real material 
package identifiers. 
CFX.Production.Application 
See 7.5.1 
MaterialsApplied Uniqueldentifier and InternalPartNumber 
properties of Material property shall       
be populated with actual/real material 
package identifiers. 

===== PAGE 30 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
30 
Table 6-2 Required Messages by Capability (cont.) 
Capability Topic(s) Relevant Messages Notes 
Exact Material Trace 
with Internal Setup 
CFX.Production.Assembly 
See 7.5.2 
Materialsinstalled Each unit in transaction shall have its 
particular materials uniquely identified 
using UnitPosition structure.  
For printed board assembly, 
InstalledComponents structure shall 
include ReferenceDesignator property 
and represent the exact material lot 
(MaterialPackage) used for each and 
every component position on the     
printed board (identified by reference 
designator). 
Exact Material Trace 
with External Setup 
CFX.Production.Assembly 
See 7.5.2 
Materialsinstalled Allows for material trace when a third-
party/external material setup system is  
in use (independent of machine software 
ecosystem). 
Uniqueldentifier field of Material 
property may be left blank. 
InternalPartNumber field of Material 
property shall be populated.  
LocationName property of 
CarrierLocation property shall be 
populated. 
Allows for exact material trace when       
a third-party/external-material setup 
system is in use (independent of   
machine software ecosystem). 
For printed board assembly, 
InstalledComponents structure shall 
include ReferenceDesignator property 
and InstallationTime precisely   
populated. 
InstallationTime shall be accurate to the 
second because a feeder change could 
occur in the third-party system at any 
time, and it is necessary to know which 
components were populated before and 
after that feeder change. 
Tool Trace CFX.Production See 7.5 ToolsUsed  
Process Route 
Validation 
CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation 
See 7.2.4 
ValidateUnitsRequest Initiate Request and process Response. 
ValidationType property determines 
type  
of validation. 
Unit Status 
Validation 
CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation 
See 7.2.4 
ValidateUnitsRequest Initiate Request and process Response. 
ValidationType property determines 
type of validation. 
Unit Trace Validation CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation 
See 7.2.4 
ValidateUnitsRequest Initiate Request and process Response. 
ValidationType property determines type 
of validation. 
This validates that material trace data   
has been received and processed by an 
upper level control system without error. 
Basic Recipe 
Visibility 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
RecipeActivated  
RecipeModified  
GetActiveRecipeRequest Respond to incoming request. 
Remote Recipe 
Selection 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
ActivateRecipeRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
Remote Recipe 
Management 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
UpdateRecipeRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
GetRecipeRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
 
  

===== PAGE 31 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
31 
Table 6-2 Required Messages by Capability (cont.) 
Capability Topic(s) Relevant Messages Notes 
Internal Setup 
Validation 
CFX.Materials.Storage 
See 7.4.2 
GetLoadedMaterialsRequest/ 
Response 
Respond to incoming request. 
MaterialsLoaded  
MaterialsUnloaded  
ValidateStationSetupRequest/ 
Response 
Respond to incoming request. 
Offline Setup CFX.Materials.Storage 
See 7.4.2 
MaterialCarriersLoaded  
MaterialCarriersUnloaded  
External Setup 
Validation 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
GetRequiredSetupRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
SetupRequirementsChanged  
LockStationRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
UnlockStationRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
Material Blocking    
for External Setup 
Validation 
CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
BlockMaterialLocationsRequest/ 
Response 
Respond to incoming request. 
UnblockMaterialLocationsRequest/ 
Response 
Respond to incoming request. 
Material Blocking    
for Internal Setup 
Validation 
CFX.Materials 
See 7.4 
BlockMaterialsRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
UnblockMaterialsRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
Station Locking CFX.Production 
See 7.5 
LockStationRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
UnlockStationRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
Unit Personalization CFX.Production.Assembly 
See 7.5.2 
UnitsPersonalized  
Station Performance 
Reporting 
CFX.ResourcePerformance 
See 7.6 
FaultOccurred SMT Placement Machines should 
support SMTPlacementFault dynamic 
type. 
Solder Paste Printers should support 
SMTSolderPastePrintingFault dynamic 
type. 
Reflow ovens should support 
ReflowOvenFault dynamic type. 
THT Insertion machines should support 
THTInsertionFault dynamic type. 
FaultAcknowledged  
FaultCleared  
HandleFaultRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
GetActiveFaultsRequest/Response Respond to incoming request. 
LogEntryRecorded  
StationOffline  
StationOnline  
StationStateChanged  
Advanced Station 
Performance 
Reporting 
CFX.ResourcePerformance 
See 7.6 
 
CalibrationPerformed  
StageStateChanged  
ToolChanged  
Station Configuration 
Management 
CFX.ResourcePerformance 
See 7.6 
StationParametersModified  
ModifyStationParametersRequest/ 
Response 
Respond to incoming request. 
Station Maintenance 
Tracking 
CFX.ResourcePerformance 
See 7.6 
MaintenancePerformed  
Energy Consumption 
Tracking 
CFX.ResourcePerformance 
See 7.6 
EnergyConsumed  
 

===== PAGE 32 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
32 
Table 6-2 Required Messages by Capability (cont.) 
Capability Topic(s) Relevant Messages Notes 
Production Unit 
Inspection 
CFX.Production. 
TestAndInspection 
See 7.5.7 
UnitsInspected  
Automated Optical 
Inspection (AOI/AXI) 
CFX.Production. 
TestAndInspection 
See 7.5.7 
Unitsinspected Inspection results should have 
ReferenceDesignator, UnitPosition,  and 
PartNumber fields populated on 
ComponentOfInterest. 
AOI Component Offset 
Measurement 
CFX.Production. 
TestAndInspection 
See 7.5.7 
UnitsInspected Including OffsetMeasurment dynamic 
class for each component inspected. 
Solder Paste Inspection CFX.Production. 
TestAndInspection 
See 7.5.7 
UnitsInspected Including SolderPasteMeasurement 
dynamic class. 
Production Unit Test CFX.Production. 
TestAndInspection 
See 7.5.7 
UnitsTested Should include Symptoms for failed tests, 
as well as Measurements for all tests. 
Solder Paste Reflow 
Processing 
CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including ReflowProcessData dynamic 
structure. 
Solder Paste Reflow 
Profiling 
CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including ReflowProfilingProcessData 
dynamic structure. 
Selective Solder 
Processing 
CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including SelectiveSolderProcessData 
dynamic structure. 
Solder Paste Printing CFX.ResourcePerformance. 
SolderPastePrinting 
See 7.6.3 
StencilCleaned  
Conformal Coating CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including CoatingProcessData dynamic 
structure. 
Cleaning CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including CleaningProcessData dynamic 
structure. 
Labeling CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including LaserMarkingProcessData 
dynamic structure. 
Wave Soldering CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including WaveProcessData dynamic 
structure. 
Hand Soldering CFX.Production.Processing 
See 7.5.5 
UnitsProcessed Including HandSolderingProcessData 
dynamic structure. 
 
7 CFX MESSAGES 
This section details CFX messages, structured by topic and level. For readability, the following abbreviations are used: 
ㆍE = Event 
ㆍRR = Request/Response message type 
ㆍBRR = Broadcast Request/Response message type 
7.1 Root Level Messages These messages relate to things such as network infrastructure, discovery, etc. 
Full message name format: “CFX.name” 
The messages in Table 7-1 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 33 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
33 
Table 7-1 CFX.Root Messages 
Name Type Description 
AreYouThere RR Allows any CFX endpoint to determine if another particular CFX endpoint is present on 
a CFX network. 
EndpointConnected E Sent when an Endpoint joins a CFX network after it has been established. 
EndpointShuttingDown E Sent when an endpoint is about to shut down and disconnect from a CFX network. 
GetEndpointlnformation RR Requests detailed information about a single specified endpoint. 
Heartbeat E 
Sent periodically by an endpoint as a keep alive and endpoint status mechanism. This 
message is normally generated automatically when using the CFX SDK, with facility to 
change the default message frequency of one-minute intervals. – Added v1.2 
Optionally, the active fault and recipe information is sent to facilitate systems gathering   
this information without having to wait for the values to change. – Added v1.7 
WholsThere BRR Allows any CFX endpoint to discover all the other endpoints participating in this CFX 
network and their capabilities. 
NotSupportedResponse RR A response that allows a CFX endpoint to indicate to the sender of a request that it is not  
able to answer to a particular request that has been made – Added v1.3 
7.2 CFX.InformationSystem (Level 1) Messages related to factory control and management, such as routing, quality operations, etc. 
There are no Level 1 messages. 
7.2.1 CFX.InformationSystem.DataTransfer (Level 2) Messages related to enterprise information systems (e.g., MES or ERP 
system) and other types of endpoint capable of performing secure data transfer (i.e., endpoints capable of exchanging            
IPC-2581(DPMX) design data would implement messages of this topic). 
Full message name format: “CFX.InformationSystem.DataTransfer.name” 
The message in Table 7-2 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-2 CFX.InformationSystem.DataTransfer Messages 
Name Type Description 
FileTransfer RR Request to an endpoint to initate a file transfer. – Added v1.4 
7.2.2 CFX.InformationSystem.OperatorValidation(Level 2) Messages related to validation of operators in the factory.       
Full message name format: “CFX.InformationSystem.OperatorValidation.name” 
The message in Table 7-3 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-3 CFX.InformationSystem.OperatorValidation Messages 
Name Type Description 
ValidateOperator RR Request to an operator take action now or be responsible for a 
Process endpoint. – Added v1.7 
7.2.3 CFX.InformationSystem.ProductionScheduling (Level 2) Messages related to the creation and management of factory 
production schedules. 
Full message name format: “CFX.InformationSystem.ProductionScheduling.name” 
The messages in Table 7-4 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 34 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
34 
Table 7-4 CFX.InformationSystem.ProductionScheduling Messages 
Name Type Description 
WorkOrdersScheduled E Indicates that one or more work order(s) have been created, scheduled for production 
or changed. 
WorkOrdersUnscheduled E Indicating that one or more work order(s) have been removed from the production 
schedule. 
7.2.4 CFX.InformationSystem.TopicValidation (Level 2) Messages related to the validation of certain topics in SMT 
production. 
Full message name format: “CFX.InformationSystem.TopicValidation.name” 
The messages in Table 7-5 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-5 CFX.InformationSystem.TopicValidation Messages 
Name Type Description 
ValidateTopic RR Message requesting the validation of certain topics in SMT production. – Added 
v2.0  
7.2.5 CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation (Level 2) Messages related to performing process-level unit route validation and 
process interlocking. 
Full message name format: “CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation.name” 
The messages in Table 7-6 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-6 CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation Messages 
Name Type Description 
ValidateUnits RR Message requesting the validation of production unit unique IDs. 
7.2.6 CFX.InformationSystem.WorkOrderManagement (Level 2) Messages related to the creation and management of factory  
work orders. 
Full message name format: “CFX.InformationSystem.WorkOrderManagement.name” 
The messages in Table 7-7 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-7 CFX.InformationSystem.WorkOrderManagement Messages 
Name Type Description 
WorkOrdersCreated E Indicates that a new work order has been created. 
WorkOrdersDeleted E Indicates that a work order has been deleted. 
WorkOrderQuantityUpdated E Indicates that the quantity of production units belonging to a work order has 
changed. 
WorkOrderStatusUpdated E Indicates that the status of a work order has changed. 
WorkOrdersUpdated E Indicates that information about a work order has been updated or changed. 
7.3 CFX.Maintenance (Level 1) Messages related to Maintenance. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Maintenance.name” 
The messages in Table 7-8 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 35 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
35 
Table 7-8 CFX.Maintenance Messages 
Name Type Description 
GetResourcelnformation RR 
This Request message requests detailed resource information about a 
single endpoint, as specified by its CFX handle. 
The response includes information regarding the endpoint's resource 
and subresources that may undergo maintenance operations. 
 – Added v1.3 
GetResourceMaintenanceAndService RR 
This Request message requests detailed resource maintenance 
information about a single endpoint, as specified by its CFX handle. 
The response includes information regarding the endpoint's 
maintenance, counters, errors and verification that are relevant for the 
decisions around the execution of the maintenance operations. 
 – Added v1.3 
GetResourceMaintenanceStatus RR 
Dynamic response from external systems with detailed information 
about a resource maintenance status. This is typically used for resource 
that may undergo maintenance operations  
(e.g., SMTTapeFeederlnformation). 
– Added v1.3 
GetResourceSetup RR 
This Request message requests detailed resource setup information 
about a single endpoint, as specified by its CFX handle. The     
response includes information regarding the endpoint's resource and 
subresources setup that may undergo maintenance operations).  
– Added v1.3 
ResourcelnformationEvent E 
Allows any CFX endpoint to send the resource and subresources of a 
specified single endpoint. The event can be sent “on change” or “time”  
base. – Added v1.3 
ResourceMaintenanceAndServiceEvent E 
Allows any CFX endpoint to send the resource and sub-resources 
maintenance and services of a specified single endpoint. The event can 
be sent “on change” or “time” base. – Added v1.3 
ResourceMaintenanceStatusEvent E 
Dynamic event from external systems with detailed information about  
a resource maintenance status. The event can be sent “on change” or 
“time” base. – Added v1.3 
ResourceSetupEvent E 
Allows any CFX endpoint to send data about the resource and sub-
resources setup. The event can be sent “on change” or “time” base.  
– Added v1.3 
7.4 CFX.Materials (Level 1) Messages related to the management of raw materials, including definition, consumption, spoilage, 
setup, location management, logistics, etc. 
There are no level 1 messages. 
7.4.1 CFX.Materials.Management (Level 2) Messages related to the management of raw materials. 
Full message name format: “ CFX.Materials.Management.name” 
The messages in Table 7-9 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 36 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
36 
Table 7-9 CFX.Materials.Management Messages 
Name Type Description 
BlockMaterials RR Specify that a particular material should not be used for any reason. 
GetMaterialInformation RR 
A request (typically, to a factory-level software system) to obtain detailed 
information about a particular material package (or collection of material 
packages). – Added v1.1 
MaterialsChainSplit E 
Sent when a certain material package chain has been modified by opening    
the splice plate and therefore creates two material chains out of one. No new 
material ID will be created during this use case. This use case is operated on 
the station. – Added v1.1 
MaterialsConsumed E Information about material consumption and spoilage. 
MaterialsInitialized E Indicates that a new material unit has been created, usually as part of the 
material receiving process. 
MaterialsJoined E Indicates that two identical or near identical materials have been joined, 
connected or combined together. 
MaterialsModified E Indicates that information about materials according to the unique ID for them 
or their carrier has been modified. 
MaterialsRetired E Indicates that materials have been retired (scrapped), due for example to shelf-
life limitation or obsolescence. 
MaterialsSplit E Indicates that a material has been split into two or more parts, creating new 
material instances as a result. 
UnblockMaterials RR Sent to a station to unblock material that has previously been blocked, as 
described above. 
7.4.1.1 CFX.Materials.Management.MSDManagement (Level 3) Message relating to the handling and management of 
moisture-sensitive materials. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Materials.Management.MSDManagement.name” 
The messages in Table 7-10 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-10 CFX.Materials.Management.MSDManagement Messages 
Name Type Description 
MaterialsExpired E Indicates that one or more materials have expired due to moisture 
contamination. 
MaterialsOpened E Indicates that one or more MSD materials have been opened and are now 
exposed to the atmosphere. 
MaterialsPlacedInDryStorage E Indicates that one or more MSD materials have been placed in dry storage. 
MaterialsRemovedFromDryStorage E Indicates that one or more MSD materials have been removed from dry 
storage. 
MaterialsRestored E Indicates that one or more MSD materials have been restored, typically 
through the process of baking. 
7.4.2 CFX.Materials.Storage (Level 2) These are messages related to events that occur when materials are stored, including 
consumption. This includes not only stock areas, but also point-of-use workstations, where materials are loaded during 
production, and automated storage, such as line-side or warehouse towers. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Materials.Storage.name” 
The messages in Table 7-11 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 37 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
37 
Table 7-11 CFX.Materials.Storage Messages 
Name Type Description 
GetLoadedMaterials RR Requests a comprehensive listing of all the materials currently loaded at an 
endpoint. 
MaterialCarriersLoaded E Sent when one or more material carriers are loaded into a designated location. 
MaterialCarriersUnloaded E Sent when one or more material carriers are unloaded from an endpoint. 
MaterialsEmpty E Sent when one or more material packages at a particular location become fully 
exhausted/depleted. 
MaterialsLoaded E 
Sent when one or more material instances are loaded into a designated location. 
Such locations include storage (stock) locations, including warehouses, sub-stores, 
etc., as well as locations associated with stations, such as machines. This message 
can be used as a material location (setup) verification event. 
MaterialsUnloaded E Sent when one or more material instances are unloaded from an endpoint. 
SplicePointDetected E Sent when one or more material instances reach a point at which a splice is detected 
from one material to another. 
ValidateStationSetup RR Sent to a station as a request to validate that the material currently loaded at the 
workstation complies with the required material setup for the active recipe. 
7.4.3 CFX.Materials.Transport (Level 2) Messages used for the transportation of raw materials from one location in the factory   
to another location. 
Full message name format:"CFX.Materials.Transport.name" 
The messages in Table 7-12 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-12 CFX.Materials.Transport Messages 
Name Type Description 
CheckpointReached E Indicates that a transport order of materials has reached a checkpoint (waypoint) 
along its journey to an assigned destination. 
CreateTransportOrder RR Requests to create a transport order with a SVS Transport Prder ID, Fleet Manager 
replies with a Fleet Manager Transport Order ID. – Added v2.0 
GetTransportOrderStatus RR Requests the status of one or more transport orders. 
StartTransfer RR Requests an endpoint to start transfer of materials from/to an autonomous mobile 
robot (AMR). – Added v2.0 
TransportOrderCompleted E Indicates that a transport order of materials has completed its journey to a 
destination. 
TransportOrderStarted E Indicates that a transport order (group) of materials has begun its journey to an 
assigned destination. 
TransportOrderStatusChanged E Indicates that the status of a transport order has changed. 
7.5 CFX.Production (Level 1) Messages related to events that affect or impact production units as part of the production process. 
Full message name format:"CFX.Production.name" 
The messages in Table 7-13 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 38 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
38 
Table 7-13 CFX.Production Messages 
Name Type Description 
ActivateRecipe RR Used to activate a named recipe at the station. 
ActivitiesExecuted E 
Indicates that one or more activities have been performed in the course of    processing one or more production 
units. The activities may or may not be value added. Activities are dynamic structures and may vary 
depending upon the nature  and purpose of the endpoint. 
BlockMaterialLocations RR Sent to a station to block or disable a particular material setup location.  
GetActiveRecipe RR Used to request the name of the recipe that is activated at a station . 
GetAvailableRecipes RR Requests a list of recipes that are available on an endpoint; wildcards may be used   for selection. The response 
includes a list of recipes that are available for execution on an endpoint. - Added v1.4 
GetRecipe RR Used to request a station for the details of a named recipe. 
GetRequiredSetup RR Requests the setup requirements of the active recipe. 
GetUnitlnfo RR 
Requests detailed information about the subunits of a given Unit, which is identified  by its HermesIdentifier or 
PrimaryIdentifier or UnitIdentifier. The Response includes information concerning bad marks, fiducial 
position, barcode, etc. - Added v1.4 
LockStation RR Request that the endpoint cease active operation (locked) as soon as practically  possible at a station. 
OperatorActivated E Indicates that an operator is now active at or responsible for a station.  
OperatorDeactivated E Indicates that an activated operator is no longer active or responsible at a station.  
ReadingsRecorded E 
Used to send a data object that has been acquired; for example, from a sensor           or a reading taken during 
processing of the unit. This data is typically used as a  traceability record.Where no unit ID is provided, the 
measurement is applicable to the process in terms of time only. 
RecipeActivated E Sent by a station to indicate the activation of a recipe by its name.  
RecipeDeactivated E Sent by a station to indicate that a recipe is no longer active on a production    resource – Added v1.2 
RecipeModified E Sent by a station to indicate that a change has been made to a specified named  recipe. 
SetupRequirementsChanged E Sent whenever the setup requirement of materials, tools, etc., are changed for any  reason at a station. 
ToolsCleaned E Sent by a process endpoint when a tools clean operation has been performed.              - Added v1.5 
ToolsLoaded E Sent by a process endpoint when tools physically are loaded at a process endpoint,  prior to any work or other 
activity commencing. - Added v1.5 
ToolsUnloaded E Sent by a process endpoint when tools physically are unloaded from a process  endpoint. This does not imply 
any information about any activity that may have  taken place. - Added v1.5 
ToolsUsed E Sent by a station to indicate one or more tools being used in the course of performing  an assembly operation. 
UnblockMaterialLocations RR Sent to a station to release the material locations block. 
UnitsArrived E Sent when production units physically arrive at a station. 
UnitsDeparted E Sent when units physically depart from a station. 
UnitsDisqualified E Indicates that a specific production unit is disqualified or scrapped.  
UnitsInitialized E 
Sent when one or more production units are first introduced into the production process flow. Unit 
initialization most often occurs when new production units are  first labeled with unique identifiers (or laser 
marked). 
UnlockStation RR Request that a station resume production, following a previous lock.  
UpdateRecipe RR Sends a named recipe to a station. 
WorkCompleted E Sent by a station when all work has been completed.  
 
  

===== PAGE 39 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
39 
Table 7-13 CFX.Production Messages (cont.) 
Name Type Description 
WorkOrderActionExecuted E Sent when a non-added-value action (out of production) relative to a work order is 
started, aborted or completed by a process endpoint. – Added v1.2 
WorkStageCompleted E Sent by a station to indicate that a stage has been completed. 
WorkStagePaused E Sent when activity pauses for some reason at a stage within the station. 
WorkStageResumed E Sent when activity recommences at a stage within a station, following a WorkStage 
Paused message. 
WorkStageStarted E Sent by a station when the work-stage for a production unit starts. 
WorkStarted E Sent by a station when the work-cycle for a production unit is started. 
7.5.1 CFX.Production.Application (Level 2) Messages used for dispensing fluids or other types of consumable materials into 
or onto production units. Several Level 3 topics exist, related to this Level 2. 
Full message name format: “ CFX.Production.Application.name” 
The messages in Table 7-14 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-14 CFX.Production.Application Messages 
Name Type Description 
MaterialApplied E Sent by a station when one or more materials are applied to a production unit. 
MaterialsUnapplied E Sent by a station when a material that was previously applied to a production unit is 
removed (wiped away, dissolved, etc.). 
Note: CFX.Production.Application.Solder (Level 3) and message have been removed for v1.1 and future versions. These  topics 
and message should not be supported. The data associated with the message is moved to be included within the UnitsProcessed 
message. 
7.5.2 CFX.Production.Assembly (Level 2) These messages are used by a production resource performing any form of assembly    
of production units. This includes automated, semimanual and manual assembly operations and covers the installation and 
removal of components to production units, which is distinct from the application of materials, such as glue, paste, epoxy, etc., 
which is a different topic. 
Full message name format: “ CFX.Production.Assembly.name” 
The messages in Table 7-15 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-15 CFX.Production.Assembly Messages 
Name Type Description 
MaterialsInstalled E Sent by a station when one or more materials are installed onto a production unit. 
MaterialsUninstalled E Sent by a station when one or more materials are removed from a production unit. 
UnitsPersonalized E Sent by a station when a configuration or assignment is made                               
(e.g., MAC Address). 
7.5.2.1 CFX.Production.Assembly.PressInsertion (Level 3) Messages used for the press insertion of materials onto 
production units. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Production.Assembly.PressInsertion.name” 
The messages in Table 7-16 belong to this topic. 
  

===== PAGE 40 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
40 
Table 7-16 CFX.Production.Assembly.PressInsertion Messages 
Name Type Description 
ConditionCompleted E Sent by a station upon completion of the press insertion process. 
GetConditionPermission RR Sent by a station to grant or reject permission for a station to proceed with the   
recipe based on the results of a condition sequence action. 
7.5.3 CFX.Production.Hermes (Level 2) This topic is for messages related to the interaction between CFX and Hermes. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Production.Hemes.name” 
The messages in Table 7-17 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-17 CFX.Production.Hermes Messages 
Name Type Description 
GetMagazineData RR This Request message allows a Hermes-enabled endpoint to acquire Hermes-   
related information about the content of a magazine. – Added v1.3 
GetWorkOrderData RR 
This Request message allows a Hermes-enabled endpoint to acquire Hermes-   
related information of a work order. This information would typically then be   
passed down the line through the Hermes protocol. – Added v1.1 
MagazineArrived E Sent by a Hermes-enabled endpoint upon arrival of a magazine. – Added v1.3 
MagazineDeparted E Sent by a Hermes-enabled endpoint upon departure of a magazine. – Added v1.3 
7.5.4 CFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading (Level 2) Messages relating to the management of production units within any 
kind of carrier or fixture. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading.name” 
The messages in Table 7-18 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-18 CFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading Messages 
Name Type Description 
UnitsLoaded E Sent by an endpoint to indicate that it has loaded one or more production units     
into any type of carrier or fixture. – Added v1.2 
UnitsUnloaded E 
Sent by an endpoint to indicate that it has unloaded one or more production        
units from any type of carrier or fixture, including the case of printed board 
depanelization. – Added v1.2 
7.5.5 CFX.Production.Processing (Level 2) Messages relating to the environmental processing of production units, including  
thermal processing, pressure chambers, UV exposure, etc. For example, SMT reflow ovens or profilers send these messages to  
indicate the temperatures experienced by a production unit as it was processed. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Production.Processing.name” 
The messages in Table 7-19 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-19 CFX.Production.Processing Messages 
Name Type Description 
UnitsProcessed E 
Sent by a station when a unit is processed at a station, such as UV exposure, 
environmental processing, repair, etc. Provides information regarding the 
experience of the unit during the processing. 
 
  

===== PAGE 41 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
41 
7.5.6 CFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair (Level 2) Messages sent by a process endpoint when one or more units have been 
reworked or repaired, including outcome information and a detailed report of the repair(s) performed. If defects or faulty test 
results (symptoms) were previously reported for these production unit(s), this message also relates the repairs performed back   
to these inspection/test results. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair.name” 
The messages in Table 7-20 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-20 CFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair Messages 
Name Type Description 
UnitsRepaired E Sent by a station when one or more units have been reworked or repaired. 
– Added v1.4 
7.5.7 CFX.Production.TestAndInspection (Level 2) Messages used when a production resource is performing any form of 
test or inspection of production units of all kinds, including automated and manual inspections. 
CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected contains a list of inspected units and for each inspected unit the 
Unitldentifier and inspection results. TransactionID in CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected links to CFX. 
Production.WorkStarted, which contains the related PANELID in PrimaryIdentifier. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.name” 
The messages in Table 7-21 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-21 CFX.Production.TestAndInspection Messages 
Name Type Description 
GetInspectionInfo RR This message requests from an endpoint solder paste inspection results for a list of 
reference designators. – Added v1.7 
UnitsInspected E Sent by a station when one or more units have been inspected. 
UnitsTested E Sent by a station when one or more units undergo a series of tests. 
7.6 CFX.ResourcePerformance (Level 1) Messages related to the activity of the production resource/production process, 
usually as a unit of production being made, but not exclusively. These messages typically refer to the operation and 
performance of a production resource. Messages within this topic relate to the overall performance of the resource, including 
utilization, faults, processing rates, etc. Processes include automated, semiautomated and manual. 
Full message name format: “CFX.ResourcePerformance.name” 
The messages in Table 7-22 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-22 CFX.ResourcePerformance Messages 
Name Type Description 
CalibrationPerformed E Sends details of a calibration event that was performed. 
ChangeSleepState RR This Request message allows an external source to change the sleep state of a stage or 
Station, with the Response message sent back to the requester. – Added v1.3 
EnergyConsumed E Sent by a station on a sampled interval of between one minute and one hour to indicate 
the energy usage and power consumption. 
EnergyConsumption RR 
This Request message allows an external source to inquire data regarding energy 
consumption of the endpoint at the time of request, together with accumulation of energy 
consumed from the time the last EnergyConsumed message was sent. The Response 
message sends the requested data back to the requester. – Added v1.3 
FaultAcknowledged E Sent to indicate that a fault state has triggered some form of action as a response. 
FaultCleared E Sent by a station when a fault is cleared as described in a FaultOccurred message. 
FaultOccurred E Sent by a station whenever a fault is encountered. 

===== PAGE 42 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
42 
GetActiveFaults RR Request allows an external source to query the equipment for a list of active faults. 
GetActiveFaults Response message that it sends back to the requester. 
HandleFault RR 
Request allows an external source to modify the behavior for a specified fault in such a 
way, for example, that the equipment is not indicating the operator should respond to this 
fault. 
LogEntryRecorded E An informational message sent by a station indicating that “something” has occurred at 
the station. 
MaintenancePerformed E Sent by a station to indicate that a maintenance event has taken place. 
ModifyStationParameters RR Allows an external source to modify a configuration parameter of a station. 
ProcessDataRecorded E Sent by a process endpoint to report the status of a process (i.e ., status of the cleaning 
liquid concentration management), - Addedv1.5 
SleepStateChanged E Sent by a process endpoint when the sleep state transitions from one state to another.        
– Added v1.3 
StageStateChanged E Sent by a station when a stage transitions from one state to another. 
StationOffline E Sent by a station when it is about to transition to a state where it is not possible for further 
communication. 
StationOnline E Sent by a station when it is ready for communication to resume. 
StationParametersModified E Sent by a station to indicate that an operator has modified a parameter or configuration 
setting. 
StationStateChanged E Sent by a station when its production state transitions from one state to another per its 
state model. 
ToolChanged E Sent by a station to report that a tool has been changed or exchanged. 
7.6.1 CFX.ResourcePerformance.PressInsertion (Level 2) Messages related to the performance of resources where press 
insertion of materials has been performed. This includes specialized faults, placement rates and other information related to the 
performance of a press insertion machine. 
Full message name format: “CFX.ResourcePerformance.PressInsertion.name” 
The messages in Table 7-23 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-23 CFX.ResourcePerformance.PressInsertion Messages 
Name Type Description 
ComponentsPressed E Sent periodically by a press insertion machine to indicate the number of 
insertions which were successfully or unsuccessfully completed. 
7.6.2 CFX.ResourcePerformance.SMTPlacement (Level 2) Messages related to the performance of resources in which SMT 
placement takes place. This includes specialized faults, placement rates and other information related to the performance of an 
SMT placement machine. 
Full message name format: “CFX.ResourcePerformance.SMTPlacement.name” 
The messages in Table 7-24 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-24 CFX.ResourcePerformance.SMTPlacement Messages 
Name Type Description 
ComponentsPlaced E 
Sent periodically by an SMT placement machine to indicate the number of 
placements which were successfully or unsuccessfully completed during the 
sample time window. 
 
  

===== PAGE 43 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
43 
7.6.3 CFX.ResourcePerformance.SolderPastePrinting (Level 2) Specialized messages related to the performance of solder 
paste printers. This might include information related to stencil or squeegee cleaning rates, etc. 
Full message name format: “CFX.ResourcePerformance.SolderPastePrinting.name” 
The messages in Table 7-25 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-25 CFX.ResourcePerformance.SolderPastePrinting Messages 
Name Type Description 
CleanSqueegee RR Request the cleaning of the squeegee. 
CleanStencil RR Request the cleaning of the stencil. 
SqueegeeCleaned E Sent to indicate that the squeegee in use has been cleaned. 
StencilCleaned E Sent to indicate that the stencil in use has been cleaned. 
7.6.4 CFX.ResourcePerformance.THTPlacement (Level 2) Messages related to the performance of resources where pin-through-
hole insertion takes place. This includes specialized faults, placement rates and other information related to the performance of  
a through-hole technology (THT) machine. 
Full message name format: “CFX.ResourcePerformance.THTPlacement.name” 
The messages in Table 7-26 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-26 CFX.ResourcePerformance.THTPlacement Messages 
Name Type Description 
ComponentsInserted E 
Sent periodically by a THT placement machine to indicate the number of 
placements which were successfully or unsuccessfully completed during the 
sample time window. 
7.7 CFX.Sensor (Level 1) Messages related to measurement devices that are not directly associated with the production 
process, such as ambient temperature or humidity sensors. Includes devices that read unique product IDs. 
Full message name format: “CFX.Sensor.name” 
There are no level 1 messages. 
7.7.1 CFX.Sensor.Identification (Level 2) Messages for devices that are responsible for reading or scanning identification 
labels or tags (barcodes, RFIDs, machine vision systems, etc.). 
Full message name format: “CFX.Sensor.Identification.name” 
The messages in Table 7-27 belong to this topic. 
Table 7-27 CFX.Sensor.Identification Messages 
Name Type Description 
IdentifiersRead E Sent when one or more identifiers have been acquired by an identification 
device (barcode scanner, RFID reader, vision system, etc.). 
IdentifiersNotRead E Sent by an identification device (barcode scanner, RFID reader, etc.) when the 
device attempts to read or interpret an identifier but is unable to do so. 
IdentifyUnits RR Sent from a station to discover the identifier of the next production unit. 
7.8 CFX Message Flow The following are examples of the exchange of messages. Other than where explicitly mentioned, all 
messages are sent from endpoints to the AMQP v1.0 broker, which is responsible to get the messages to reach their intended 
destination(s). 
7.8.1 Production Endpoint (Station) Connection The example in Figure 7-1 illustrates the connection and initial introduction 
phase of a station endpoint into a CFX network. 

===== PAGE 44 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
44 
 
Figure 7-1 CFX Station Connection Example Message Flow 
 
The message flow is as follows: 
1) As soon as the CFX application at the endpoint is running, it sends the CFX.EndPointConnected message. This allows all   
the connected endpoints the opportunity to know that the endpoint has connected, and the broker will allow it to send and 
receive messages. 
2) In the case when an application endpoint has connected to the CFX network, it may want to find out about all other endpoints 
currently connected, and so in this example it sends the CFX.WholsThereRequest, which is a broadcast message sent to all 
endpoints. Each endpoint should respond with the CFX.WhoIsThereResponse message. 
3) Applications that are running on the CFX network when a new endpoint connection is made are likely to want to know 
information about the endpoint, and so it sends the CFX.WholsThere message specifically to the endpoint(s), and then the 
endpoint responds with the relevant information. 
4) After this initial introduction phase, many CFX messages can be exchanged between endpoints of any type. 
5) Should an endpoint need to be turned off for any reason, it should send the CFX.EndPointShuttingDown message to let all 
other endpoints know it is disconnecting. 
7.8.2 Station State Transition The example in Figure 7-2 shows the typical messages sent when a station prepares to start 
production. This assumes that the station is already connected to the CFX network and the process was previously idle, a state   
to which it will return. 


===== PAGE 45 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
45 
 
Figure 7-2 CFX Station State Transition Example Message Flow 
The message flow is as follows: 
1) The station sends the CFX.ResourcePerformance.StationStateChanged message with a parameter of “Setup” to indicate       
the machine setup state is being entered. 
2) The stations sends the CFX.Production.OperatorActivated message to indicate the responsibility for the operation of the 
machine. 
3) The station sends the CFX.Production.RecipeActivated message to indicate a recipe has been activated on the machine. 
4) The station sends one or more CFX.Materials.MaterialsLoaded messages to indicate the loading of materials to the station    
as required by the recipe. 
5) The station sends the CFX.ResourcePerformance.StationStateChanged message, with a parameter of “Ready” to indicate     
the machine setup state is complete and that the machine is ready for production. 
6) Once in the ready state, production will take place, with many CFX activity messages exchanged. 
7) At the end of the run of production, the CFX.ResourcePerformance.StationStateChanged message is sent with a parameter    
of “On” to indicate the production and all other activity has been completed. 
This example is a simplified case. Additional messages may be required; for example, to validate the material setup and     
recipe loaded. 
7.8.3 Station Processing The example in Figure 7-3 shows a set of CFX messages that may be exchanged during the execution 
of a production unit. This example assumes the station is in the Ready state. 


===== PAGE 46 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
46 
 
Figure 7-3 CFX Station Processing Example Message Flow 
The message flow is as follows: 
1) The station sends a CFX.Production.UnitsArrived message as a production unit arriving is detected. 
2) A CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation.ValidateUnitRequest is sent to the MES host to confirm the production unit is 
eligible for processing. The response is sent. This example assumes the response was OK. Other messages may be required  
prior to this point to interrogate the production unit ID from, for example, a bar code reader. 
3) The station sends the CFX.Production.WorkStarted message to indicate the processing of the production unit has started. 
4) Optionally, CFX.ResourcePerformance.WorkExecuted messages can be used to inform the progress of individual operations 
during the course of execution. 
5) Should any issues occur during processing, the CFX.ResourcePerformance.FaultOccurred and Cleared messages can be    
used to communicate the issues. 
6) Additional messages to show the start and completion of processing where the station has multiple stages can be included. 
7) Once the processing is done, the CFX.Production.WorkCompleted messages is sent. 
8) After completion, where materials, etc., have been used, a CFX.Materials.MaterialsInstalled message or similar can be sent. 
9) For a test or inspection process, for example, an optional CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected/UnitTested 
message can be sent, which contains specific information related to the inspection or testing, which can be used in closed       
loop environments. This can be sent to the broker as with other messages, or it can be targeted to a specific endpoint that is 
defined to be responsible for closed loop data  processing. 
 
8 CFX TECHNICAL REFERENCE 
An accompanying part of this standard is the CFX SDK. As part of the requirement to ensure CFX supports the latest machine 
and production technology requirements, the latest technical information related to CFX is contained within the online SDK 
documentation area, which can be accessed at http://www.connectedfactoryexchange.com/CFXDemo/sdk. 
This resource provides details on message data content and formatting as well as details on data types used. This SDK is 
intended to be updated periodically. 


===== PAGE 47 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
47 
APPENDIX A  
Version Updates 
As updated versions of IPC-2591 are published, this appendix indicates the changes that occurred between each version update, 
following the original IPC-2591, Version 1.0 release. Changes to topics of message names are recorded in line in this document, 
as well as which changes in specific data fields are made in the CFX SDK. This section is intended as a quick reference for all 
changes. 
A.1 IPC-2591, Version 1.1 Changes 
Topics: 
ㆍNo Changes 
Messages: 
ㆍCFX.InformationSystem.UnitV alidation: 
     - Added Primary Identifier and HermesIdentifier properties to ValidateUnitsRequest message in support of Hermes 
compatibility. 
     - Added these properties to CFX.Production.UnitsArrived, CFX.Production.UnitsDeparted, 
ㆍCFX.Production.UnitsDisqualified, CFX.Production.UnitsInitialized, CFX.Production.WorkStarted, 
CFX.Sensor.Identification.IdentifiersRead, CFX.Sensor.Identification.IdentifyUnitsResponse and ConditionResult structure. 
ㆍCFX.Materials.Management.GetMaterialInformationRequest/Response: 
     - Added messages. 
ㆍCFX.Materials.Management.MaterialsChainSplit: 
     - Added message. 
ㆍCFX.Production.Assembly.MaterialsInstalled: 
     - Added NonInstalledMaterials property. This allows assembly machines to account for materials that were intentionally     
not installed during an assembly operation. 
ㆍCFX.Production.Processing.UnitsProcessed: 
     - Added structure for Selective Soldering, SelectiveActivity. 
ㆍCFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected: 
     - Added additional inspection method, automated X-ray inspection (AXI). 
     - Added additional test methods, in-circuit test (ICT), flying probe test (FPT), FCT, basic systems test (BST). 
     - Added RecipeName and RecipeRevision properties so subscribers may know the specific revision of the Recipe in use        
at the time of inspection. 
ㆍCFX.Production.TestAndInspection.Unitsested: 
     - Added additional test methods; now supports, boundary scan, burn-in, printed board flying probe, FCT and ICT. 
ㆍCFX.Production.WorkStagePaused: 
     - New parameter added to indicate the reason why the pause has occurred. 
ㆍCFX.Production.Application.Solder: 
     - Topic removed - should not be supported. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Application.Solder.PCBSelectiveSoldered: 
     - Message removed - should not be supported. The CFX.Production.Processing.UnitsProcessed should be used in all cases. 
  

===== PAGE 48 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
48 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Assembly.MaterialsInstalled: 
     - Now includes a parameter set that lists noninstalled materials (i.e., those that should have been installed but for some  
reason were not). 
ㆍCFX.Production.RecipeActivated: 
     - Updated this message and Recipe structure to include expected cycle time and panel size (units/cycle) in support of     
overall equipment effectiveness (OEE) calculations. 
     - Added new parameter NumberOfComponentsPerUnit property in support of components per hour (CPH) calculations. 
ㆍCFX.Production.UnitsArrived/CFX.Production.UnitsDeparted: 
     - Added new property Lane. 
ㆍCFX.Production.UnitsInitialized: 
     - Added new property TransactionID. 
ㆍCFX.Production.WorkCompleted: 
     - Added new properties PrimaryIdentifier, HemesIdentifier and Units collection. 
Message Structures: 
ㆍ ActivityState enumeration: 
     - Added additional activity states On and Off. 
ㆍ FaultCause enumeration: 
     - Added additional fault states ElectricalFailure and ServicesFailure. 
ㆍInspectedUnits/Inspection/Measurement structures: 
     - Added VerificationResult enumeration. 
ㆍ MaterialModify Reason enumeration: 
     - Added additional SensorTriggeredCorrection. 
ㆍ MaterialPackage data structure: 
     - Added LeadingMaterialPackage, BatchID, BatchMaterialPackage, and GreyZone properties. 
ㆍMaterialPackageDetail data structure: 
     - Added ExpiryDate property. 
ㆍPCBInspectionRecipe: 
     - Dynamic structure added, derived from existing Recipe structure. This new structure provides detailed geometric 
information about the printed board and the components being inspected, so that pick-and-place equipment (and others)         
may correlate inspection results to printed board layout dynamically. 
ㆍResourceState enumeration: 
     - Added additional states SBY NoProductBlocked and SBY NoProductStarved. 
ㆍSelective Activity: 
     - New structure created for CFX.ProductionProcessing.UnitsProcessed. 
ㆍ ValidationType enumeration: 
     - Added UnitTraceValidation property, used by CFX.InformationSystem.UnitValidation.ValidateUnitsRequest/Response 
message. 
  

===== PAGE 49 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
49 
A.2 IPC-2591, Version 1.2 Changes 
Transport: 
ㆍStandardized AMQP envelope properties for CFX messages. The content of AMQP 1.0 message properties and application 
properties is now defined by IPC-2591, allowing for advanced message routing and delivery by compatible brokers and   
message routing systems. 
ㆍCompressed message encoding support. CFX messages may now be compressed for transmission viagzip compression, 
materially reducing the bandwidth requirements. The AMQP message envelope indicates whether the message payload is 
compressed. 
Topics: 
ㆍAdded Topic CFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading, which is implemented when a production resource is capable of  
loading or unloading production units into any type of fixture or carrier. This includes depanelization equipment, for       
example. 
Messages: 
ㆍCFX.Heartbeat: 
     - Added new message Heartbeat, sent periodically by an endpoint as a keep alive and endpoint status mechanism. 
ㆍCFX.GetEndpointInformationResponse: 
     - Added new properties SoftwareVersion, Firmware Version, OperatingSystem, OperatingSystemPlatform, and 
OperatingSystem Version to Endpoint structure. 
ㆍCFX.InformationSystem.UnitV alidation.ValidateUnitsRequest: 
     - Added new property Lane to ValidateUnitsRequest, which indicates the production Lane on the endpoint through         
which the production unit is about to travel. 
ㆍCFX.Production.ActivitiesExecuted: 
     - Changed SMTPlacementActivity dynamic structure. 
     - Changed singular Head property to plural Heads and restructured as a list to reference multiple placement heads in one 
single activity. 
ㆍCFX.Production.GetRecipeResponse and CFX.Production.UpdateRecipeRequest: 
     - Added new UnitLength, Unit Width, and UnitHeight properties to Recipe structure. 
     - Added new dynan ic structure SolderPastePrintingRecipe, which represents a specialized type of Recipe related to        
solder paste printing processes. 
ㆍCFX.Production.ReadingsRecorded: 
     - Added new dynamic structure C.Structures. VaccumDeposition. CoatingProcessReading, which is a specialized type           
of Reading sent by endpoints which perform vacuum deposition coating processes. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.RecipeActivated: 
     - Added new property RecipeStagesInformation, which indicates the expected cycle time and component count     
breakdowns for each Stage of the Recipe. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.RecipeDeactivated: 
     - Added new message RecipeDeactivated, sent when a recipe is no longer active on a production resource. 
ㆍCFX.Production.RecipeModified: 
     - Added new Reason enumeration Deleted to indicate that the recipe has been deleted at the endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Production.WorkOrderActionExecuted: 
     - Added new message WorkOrderActionExecuted to record activities performed on a WorkOrder not directly related to 
production work transactions. 

===== PAGE 50 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
50 
ㆍCFX.Production.WorkStagePaused: 
     - Added new PauseReason StoppedByOperator to WorkStagePauseReason enumeration. 
ㆍCFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading.UnitsLoaded: 
     - Added new message UnitsLoaded which indicates when an endpoint loads production units into any type of carrier or 
fixture. 
ㆍCFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading.UnitsUnloaded: 
     - Added new message UnitsUnloaded which indicates when an endpoint unloads production units from any type of        
carrier or fixture, such as in the case of depanelization. 
ㆍCFX.Production.Processing.UnitsProcessed: 
     - Added new dynamic structure SolderPastePrintingPCBProcessData, which is used to provide detailed trace information 
related to solder paste printing. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsTested: 
     - Added new dynamic structure CFX.Structures.VaccumDeposition.CoatingThicknessMeasurement, which is a       
specialized type of Measurement sent by endpoints which perform vacuum deposition coating processes. 
ㆍ CFX.ResourcePerformance.FaultOccurred: 
     - Added new property Transactionld to Fault structure, which may be used to relate a specific Fault to a particular work 
transaction established by a WorkStarted message. 
    - Added new enumeration type ProcessError to FaultCause enumeration. 
A.3 IPC-2591, Version 1.3 Changes 
Topics: 
ㆍAdded Topic CFX.Maintenance, which is implemented when a resource is capable of exposing maintenance information     
and responding to maintenance requests. 
ㆍ Added Topic CFX.Production.Hermes, which is implemented by endpoints that support the HERMES standard. 
Messages: 
ㆍCFX.GetEndpointInformationResponse: 
     - Added new property SupportedPCBDimensions to Endpoint structure which defines the maximum and minimum 
dimensions to which a PCB panel or fixture must conform. 
     - Added new property SleepStates to Endpoint structure which identifies the energy conservation modes supported by         
the endpoint. 
ㆍ CFX.NotSupportedResponse: 
     - Added new response type message that may be sent in response to any request type message indicating that the         
endpoint does not support the request that was made by another endpoint. 
ㆍ CFX.Maintenance.GetResourceInformationRequest/GetResourcelnformationResponse: 
     - Added new request/response messages to obtain detailed information about the resources and sub-resources contained 
within an endpoint that main require maintenance. 
ㆍ CFX.Maintenance.GetResourceMaintenanceAndServiceRequest/GetResourceMaintenanceAndServiceResponse: 
     - Added new request/response messages to obtain detailed maintenance related information regarding the resources and   
sub-resources contained within an endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Maintenance.GetResourceMaintenanceStatusRequest/GetResourceMaintenanceStatusResponse: 
     - Added new request/response messages to obtain detailed information regarding the status of the resources and sub- 
resources contained within an endpoint. 
  

===== PAGE 51 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
51 
ㆍ CFX.Maintenance.GetResourceSetupRequest/GetResourceSetupResponse: 
     - Added new request/response messages to obtain detailed information regarding the status of removeable maintenance 
resources and sub-resources currently attached to an endpoint. 
ㆍ CFX.Maintenance.ResourcelnformationEvent: 
     - Added new event type message that periodically reports the current resources and sub-resources contained within an 
endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Maintenance.ResourceMaintenance AndServiceEvent: 
     - Added new event type message that periodically reports maintenance and service information related to resources and    
sub-resources contained within an endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Maintenance.ResourceMaintenanceStatusEvent: 
     - Added new event type message that periodically reports status of resources and sub-resources contained within an   
endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Maintenance.ResourceSetupEvent: 
     - Added new event type message that periodically reports when detachable resources are setup at an endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Production.GetRecipeResponse: 
     - Added new dynamic recipe structure for SPI equipment called SolderPasteInspectionRecipe. 
     - Added new property UnitPositionNumber to Board structure used by dynamic PCBInspectionRecipe dynamic recipe 
structure for AOI equipment. 
     - Added new property PartNumber to Component structure used by dynamic PCBInspectionRecipe dynamic recipe    
structure for AOI equipment. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.RecipeActivated: 
     - Added new property RelevantSurface that identifies the surface of the product to which the recipe applies. 
     - Added new property TargetQuantity that reports the total number of production units intended to be produced by the         
run associated with the newly activated recipe. 
     - Added new property WorkOrderldentifier that identifies the Work Order and/or Batch that will be produced by the        
newly activated recipe. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Assembly.MaterialsInstalled and CFX.Production.Assembly.MaterialsUninstalled: 
     - Added new property Stage to InstalledComponent structure that identifies the stage within the endpoint that performed     
the installation or uninstallation. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Hermes.GetMagazineDataRequest/GetMagazineDataResponse: 
     - Added new request/response messages that allows an endpoint to request information about a Hermes magazine. 
ㆍCFX.Production.Hermes.MagazineArrived: 
     - Added new event type message that allows an endpoint to signal when it has received a Hermes-enabled magazine 
containing production units. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Hermes.MagazineDeparted: 
     - Added new event type message that allows an endpoint to signal when a Hermes-enabled magazine containing      
production units has departed from the endpoint. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Hermes.GetWorkOrderDataRequest/GetWorkOrderDataResponse: 
     - Added new request/response type messages that may be used by an endpoint to acquire information related to a       
particular work order (typically at the beginning of a Hermes-enabled line). This information would typically then be          
passed down the line through the Hermes protocol/mechanism. 
  

===== PAGE 52 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
52 
ㆍ CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected: 
     - Added new property RefNo to the Inspection structure that identifies the part of the Recipe to which the Inspection    
applies. 
     - Added new properties A, AR, EA, PX, PY , and RXY to SolderPasteMeasurement dynamic structure. 
ㆍCFX.ResourcePerformance.CalibrationPerformed: 
     - Added new property Status to Calibration structure indicating the current status of the calibration effort. 
     - Added new property Calibration Time to Calibration structure indicating when that particular calibration was        
performed. 
ㆍCFX.ResourcePerformance.EnergyConsumed: 
     - Added new properties CurrentNow, CurrentNowRYB, FrequencyNow, MeanCurrent, MeanCurrentRYB,      
MeanFrequency, MeanPower, MeanPowerRYB, MeanV oltage,MeanV oltageRYB, MinimumCurrent, 
MinimumCurrentRYB,MinimumFrequency, MinimumPowerRYB, MinimumV oltage, MinimumV oltageRYB,     
PeakCurrent, PeakCurrentRYB, PeakV oltage, PeakV oltageRYB,  PowerFactorNow,  PowerFactoryRYB,  PowerNow,  
PowerNowRYB,  ThreePhaseNeutralCurrentNow, V oltageNow, and V oltageNowRYB to allow more detailed energy 
consumption reporting. 
A.4 IPC-2591, Version 1.4 Changes 
Topics: 
ㆍAdded Topic CFX.InformationSystem.DataTransfer, which is implemented when a resource is capable transferring data 
packages (e.g., IPC-2581 design data) from one endpoint to another. 
ㆍAdded Topic CFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair, which is implemented by endpoints involved in the repair and/or rework of 
production units. 
Messages: 
ㆍCFX.InformationSystem.FileTransferequest/FileTransferesponse 
     - Added new request/response message to allow an endpoint to initiate a file transfer between itself and another endpoint. File 
transfers may proceed either from the initiator/requester to the recipient (PUSH Mode), or from recipient to initiator/requester 
(PULL Mode). File transfers may also be In-Band, meaning the file data payload is included in the CFX message directly and  
transferred via the AMQP protocol. They may also be Qut-of-Band, meaning a secure link to the data file is passed via the CFX 
message over AMQP protocol, and a secondary protocol (such as HTTPS or SFTP) is then used to transfer the file data payload, 
independent of the AMQP message stream. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.GetAvailableRecipesRequest/GetAvailableRecipesResponse 
     - Added new request/response messages that allow an endpoint to query another endpoint for a listing of all available recipes 
that are resident on that endpoint (or at a specific folder or location on that endpoint). 
ㆍCFX.Production.GetUnitInfoRequest/GetUnitInfoResponse 
     - Added new request/response messages that allow an endpoint to query another endpoint for information related to a specific 
production unit or grouping of production units (i.e., in the case of a printed board panel). For example, this new 
request/response pairing enables an endpoint to obtain the bad-mark mapping of a particular panel from another endpoint that 
has such knowledge. This could be used as an alternative to scanning the whole panel, searching for bad-marks, thereby saving 
valuable production time. 
ㆍCFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair.UnitsRepaired 
     - Added new event type message that allows an endpoint to provide detailed information related to the repair and rework of 
production units previously found to be defective. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Hermes.GetWorkOrderDataResponse 
     - Added new property Route to existing message that enables routing information to be passed to downstream endpoints. 
  

===== PAGE 53 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
53 
ㆍCFX.ResourcePerformance.LogEntryRecorded 
     - Added new property Additionallnfo that enables an endpoint to provide additional detail related to the log entry. This       
new property is a dynamic structure and may be overidden to provide different information for different types of           
endpoints. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.Defect, CFX.Stuctures.Symptom, CFX.Structures.Image 
     - Added new property Status to both structures. This new property  is an enumeration that permits the lifecycle of an        
issue (a Defect or a Symptom) to be tracked. This is related to the new CFX.Production.ReworkAndRepair topic and    
messages. 
     - Added new properties ImageURL and TransferMode to the preexisting Image data structure used by the Defect data 
tructure. These new properties enable images of the defects to be transferred Out-of-Band, similar to the new 
FileDataTransferRequest/Response functionality. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.ProcessingResult, CFX.Structures.TestResult, CFX.Structures.ValidationStatus, CFX.Structures.    
WorkResult 
     - Added new value Skipped to all of these preexisting enumerations to support bad-marks. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.RejectionReason 
     - Added new value BadVisionTestBeforePickup to this preexisting enumeration used by the 
CFX.Production.Assembly.MaterialsInstalled message. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.InspectedUnit 
     - Added new property TotalInspectionCount to this preexisting data structure used by the 
CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected message. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.InstalledMaterial 
     - Added new property QuantityNonInstalled to this preexisting data structure used by the 
CFX.Production.Assembly.MaterialsInstalled message. 
A.5 IPC-2591, Version 1.5 Changes 
Topics: 
ㆍNo changes 
Messages: 
ㆍCFX.Production.ToolsCleaned 
     - Added new event type message indicating that one or more Tools have been cleaned. 
ㆍCFX.Production.ToolsLoaded 
     - Added new event type message indicating that one or more Tools have been loaded at an endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.Production.ToolsUnloaded 
     - Added new event type message indicating that one or more Tools have been unloaded at an endpoint. 
ㆍCFX.ResourcePerformance.ProcessDataRecorded 
     - Added new event type message allowing an endpoint to indicate that processing of some kind has occurred outside of    
main flow of production. This is complimentary to the UnitsProcessed message, which indicates that processing has        
occurred within the main flow of production, involving production units. 
ㆍCFX.Production.UnitsProcessed 
     - Augmentedyamic strctures used by this message to include support for cleanig and depaneling (router) type           
equipment (see details in Data Structures section). 
  

===== PAGE 54 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
54 
Data Structures: 
ㆍCFX.Structures.FaultCause 
     - Added new value to this enumeration: RejectedComponent. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.InstalledMaterial 
     - New property ReferencePartNumber added to pre-existing InstalledMaterial structure. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.MaterialPackageDetail 
     - Added to property and dynamic structure PackagingInfo to MaterialPackageDetail structure. This new property/       
dynamic structure allows endpoints to specify details, such as dimensions, related to the physical packaging of the            
material (tape reel, tube, box, etc.). 
     - Added new properties to the pre-existing MaterialPackageDetail data structure: BatchId, GreyZone,   
InternalPackageName, PackagingInfo, PartPrice, PartPriceUnit. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.PackagingInfo 
     - Added to dynamic structure PackagingInfo. This new dynamic structure allows endpoints to specify details, such as 
dimensions,  related to the physical packaging of a material (tape reel, tube, box, etc.). 
ㆍCFX.Structures.UnitPosition 
     - New property Status added to pre-existing UnitPosition structure, which is used to indicate the processing outcome of        
an individual unit processed together with a group of units. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.UnitStatus 
     - Added new enumeration UnitStatus, which is used by the pre-existing UnitPosition structure to indicate the processing 
outcome of an individual unit processed together with a group of units. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.VerificationResult 
     - Added new values to this enumeration: DefectAccepted, DefectClosed, DefectRepaired. This is used by the pre-        
existing Defect data structure. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Cleaning.CleaningProcessData 
     - Added new dynamic structure to support cleaning type equipment. This structure can be utilized by the UnitsProcessed    
and ProcessDataRecorded messages to report detailed information specific to cleaning processes. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Cleaning.CleaningManagementData 
     - Added new dynamic structure to support cleaning type equipment. This structure can be utilized by the UnitsProcessed    
and ProcessDataRecorded messages to report detailed information specific to cleaning processes. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Coating.CoatingMeasurement 
     - Added new properties to this pre-existing structure: Axis, FluidPressure, NozzleWidth. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Coating.CoatingMeasurementType 
     - Added new values to this enumeration: Axis, Fluidweight, Heater, MaterialLevel, Monitor, NozzleWidth. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Coating.CoatingNozzle 
     - Added new structure CoatingNozzle, used by CoatingProcessData dynamic structure. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Coating.CoatingNozzleData 
     - Added new structure CoatingNozzleData, used by CoatingProcessData dynamic structure. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.Coating.CoatingProcessData 
     - Added new property Nozzle to this pre-existing dynamic structure. 
  

===== PAGE 55 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
55 
ㆍCFX.Structures. Depaneling.RouterToolProcessData 
     - Added new dynamic structure to support depaneling / router type equipment. This structure can be utilized by the 
UnitsProcessed and ProcessDataRecorded messages to report detailed information specific to depaneling and routing    
processes. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMDBulkCaseFeeder 
     - Added new dynamic structure SMDBulkCaseFeeder, a specific type of MaterialCarrier, that represents a bulk type    
material feeder used by SMD equipment. 
ㆍCFX.Structures. SMTPlacement.SMDTapePackagingInfo 
     - Added new dynamic structure SMDTapePackagingInfo, a specific type of PackagingInfo, that represents a reel of taped 
SMD parts. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMDTubePackagingInfo 
     - Added new dynamic structure SMDTubePackagingInfo, a specific type of PackagingInfo, that represents a tube of SMD 
parts. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMTPlacementFaultType 
     - Added new values to this enumeration: FeederError, LowQuantity, PartsPartiallyExhaust. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMTStageInformation 
     - Added new dynamic structure SMTStagelnformation, a specific type of Stagelnformation, that represents a stage within 
SMT type equipment. This is part of the schema used by the GetEndpointInformationRequest/Response messages. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.SolderPastePrinting.SMTSqueegee 
     - Added new property CleaningState to this pre-existing data structure. 
ㆍCFX.Structures.SolderPastePrinting.SMTStencil 
     - Added new property CleaningState to this pre-existing data structure.  
A.6 IPC-2591, Version 1.6 Changes 
Topics: 
No changes 
Messages: 
ㆍ CFX.Production.RecipeActivated 
     - Added new property ExpectedWork Time that represents the expected amount of time that the equipment will spend 
processing each unit for this recipe. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.RecipeDeactivated 
     - Added new property WorkOrderldentifier that represents the work order that was just deactivated. 
ㆍ CFX. Production.RecipeModified 
     - Added new property WorkOrderldentifier that represents the work order associated with the recipe modification. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.UnitsInspected 
     - Added new property InspectedPanel, which is an optional field that represents a summary of inspections performed on         
a printed board panel. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Processing.UnitsProcessed 
     - Augmented dynamic structures used by this message to include support for U curing type equipment (see details in         
Data Structures for this section). 
  

===== PAGE 56 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
56 
ㆍ CFX.Production.WorkCompleted 
     - Added new PerformanceImpacts property that summarizes a list of conditions that impacted the equipment's performance 
during the processing of a given unit. 
ㆍ CFX. Production. WorkOrderActionExecuted 
     - Added new properties Recipe Name, RecipeRevision and RelevantSurface to identify details of a recipe associated to a 
given work order. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.WorkStageCompleted 
     - Added new Performancelmpacts property that summarizes a list of conditions that impacted the equipment's       
performance during the processing of a given unit within a particular equipment stage. 
Data Structures: 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.FiducialInfo 
     - Added new property Uniqueldentifier, intended to distinctly identify a particular fiducial. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.MaterialCarrier 
     - Added new property ParentCarrier to allow for subcarrier situations. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.OperatingSystem 
     - Added new value to this enumeration: Windows11 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.UnitStatus 
     - Added new value to this enumeration: Skip 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.Recipe 
     - Added new property Expected Work Time, representing the expected amount of time the equipment will spend      
processing each unit for this recipe. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.RecipeStagelnformation 
     - Added new property Expected Work Time, representing the expected amount of time the equipment will spend      
processing each unit for this recipe at a particular stage. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SolderPasteInspection.SolderPasteInspectionRccipe 
     - Added new property Fiducials to this data structure, indicating information about the fiducials associated with the        
recipe. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.UVCuring.UVCuringProcessData 
     - Added new dynamie structure derived from ProcessData, allowing UV Curing type equipment to report process data     
using the UnitsProcessed CFX message. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.UVCuring.UVCuringGlassPlate 
     - New data structure used by the UVCuringProcessData dynamic structure. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.UVCuring.UVCuringLampData 
     - New data structure used by the UVCuringProcessData dynamic structure. 
A.7 IPC-2591, Version 1.7 Changes 
Topics: 
ㆍ Added Topic CFX.InformationSystem.OperatorValidation, which is implemented by endpoints that need to validate 
Activation of operator with an external system. 
  

===== PAGE 57 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
57 
Messages: 
ㆍ CFX.Production.TestAndInspection.GetInspectionInfoRequest/GetInspectionInfoResponse 
     - Added new request/response message pair optionally implemented test and inspection systems, which allows other         
CFX endpoints to query for a list of inspections and tests performed on a specific set of units. 
ㆍ CFX.Heartbeat 
     - Added new properties ActiveFaults and ActiveRecipes that indicate if there are any open (unaddressed faults) and the 
currently active recipe at the endpoint, respectively. 
ㆍ CFX.InformationSystem.OperatorValidation.ValidateOperatorRequest/ValidateOperatorResponse 
     - Added new request/response message pair optionally implemented by factory software systems that allows equipment      
and other endpoints validate that a given operator is qualified and permitted to operate a certain piece of equipment                    
or perform a certain task. 
ㆍ CFX.Materials.Storage.GetLoadedMaterialsRequest 
     - Added new optional property ResourceUniqueIdentifier that allows the requestor to identify the specific resource in     
which they are interested. 
Data Structures: 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.MaterialCarrierLocation 
     - Added new property ResourceLocation that identifies the resource to which the MaterialCarrierLocation is associated. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.Resource 
     - Added new property Type that indicates the type of material storage  resource (e.g., Shelf, Storage Tower, Machine). 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.UnitInfo 
     - Added new property CRDs, which is a list of specific component reference designators that are relevant to a particular 
transaction. 
A.8 IPC-2591, Version 2.0 Changes 
Topics: 
ㆍ Added Topic CFX.InformationSystem.TopicValidation, which is implemented by an endpoints which allows other endpoints 
to discover the validation types supported by the responding endpoint. 
Messages: 
ㆍ CFX.Materials.Transport.CreateTransportOrderRequest/Response and CFX.Materials.Transport.StartTransferRequest/Response 
     - Added new request/response messages to create transport orders and respond to order requests for managers and to      
inform a machine than an AMR has arrived at its location and materials can be transferred from/to the AMR to/from the 
machine. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.LoadingAndUnloading.UnitsLoaded/Unloaded, CFX. Production.UnitsDisqualified, CFX.Production.UnitaInitialized 
     - Added new property UnitCount to account for the number of individual production units. 
ㆍ CFX.ResourcePerformance.CalibrationPerformed 
     - Added new property UnitCount to account for the number of individual production units. 
ㆍ CFX.Production.Processing.UnitsProcessed 
     - Added support for wave solder equipment via new CFX.Structures.SolderWave.WaveProcessData data structure, and new 
related sub-structures in CFX.Structures.SolderWave namespace. 
     - Added support for hand solder operations via new CFX.Structures.HandSoldering.HandSolderingBoardProcessData data 
structure, and new related sub-structures in CFX.Structures.HandSoldering namespace. 

===== PAGE 58 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
58 
Data Structures: 
ㆍ CFX.Production.AppliedMaterial 
     - Added new structure AppliedMaterial  to describe the quantity of the material that was applied to a production unit,         
with defined units and thresholds. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.CalibrationMeasurement 
     - Added new structure CalibrationMeasurement to provide a list of  measurements captured during a calibration process. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMDMultiTrayFeeder 
     - Added new structure SMDMultiTrayFeeder to accommodate multiple trays. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMDTrayPackagingInfo 
     - Added new structure SMDTrayPackagingInfo to support collection of packaging information for an SMD tape. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.TransportedMaterial 
     - Added new structure TransportedMaterial, which contains lists of transported materials and provides a dedicated list by  
type of material. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.ValidationData 
     - Added new dynamic structure ValidationData which includes MaterialCarrierValidationTopicData to represent          
Material Carriers that need to be identified, MaterialValidationTopicData to represent materials that need to be              
identified, RecipeValidationTopicData to represent the information of a recipe that needs to be validated by 
ValidateTopicRequest, and ToolV alidationTopicData to represent tools that need to be validated. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.TransportPriority 
     - Added new enumeration TransportPriority to specify the priority (low, medium, high) of a transport. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.Conveyor 
     - Added new properties CenterSupportHeightReadingPoint, CenterSupportHeightSetPoint, 
CenterSupportPositionReadingPoint, CenterSupportPositionSetPoint, Sequence, SpeedReadingPoint, SpeedSetPoint, 
WidthReadingPoint, WidthSetPoint. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.InspectedPanel 
     - Added new property PCBVariant to provide the identification of the PCB variant. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.NumericValue 
     - Added new properties MaximumAcceptableValueUnits and MinimumAcceptableValueUnits to provide maximum and 
minimum acceptable values represent in valid SI units. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMTInstalledComponent 
     - Added new properties InstallationSequence to provide the installation sequence within the corresponding placement      
cycle for this material/part, PickingSequence to provide the picking sequence within the corresponding picking cycle                
for this material/part and PickingTime to provide the specific time when the material/part was picked or attempted to                 
be picked. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMTNonInstalledComponent 
     - Added new properties PickingSequence to provide the picking sequence within the corresponding picking cycle for this 
material/part and PickingTime to provide the specific time when the material/part was picked or attempted to be                 
picked. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SMTPlacement.SMTPlacementFault 
     - Added new properties NumberOfTriesBeforeError to provide occurrences of errors that have resulted in this fault       
(mostly relevant for PartExhaust, FeederError, NozzleError and HeadError types of placement faults) and   
ReferencePartNumber which indicates the original part number if the material package is used as an alternate part. 
  

===== PAGE 59 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
59 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.SolderPastePrinting.SolderPastePrintingPCBProcessData 
     - Added new propertie PrePrintStretch and PostPrintStretch to provide the relative stretch ratio of a printed board before     
and after printing. 
ㆍ CFX.Structures.UnitPosition 
     - Added new property Z to provide the z coordinate of a Production unit origin, as it is known to the endpoint, expressed       
in mm. 
  

===== PAGE 60 =====
February 2025                  IPC-2591-
Version 2.0 
60 
APPENDIX B - Acronyms and Abbreviations 
AMQP - Advanced Message Queuing Protocol 
AOI - Automated optical inspection 
AXI - Automated X-ray inspection 
BOM - Bill of materials 
BST - Basic systems test 
CAD - Computer-aided design 
CFX - Connected Factory Exchange 
CPH - Components per hour 
ERP - Enterprise resource planning 
FCT - Functional test 
FPT - Flying probe test 
IC - Integrated circuit 
ICT - In-circuit test 
IIoT - Industrial Internet of Things 
IoT - Internet of Things 
IT - Information technology 
JSON - JavaScript Object Notation 
KPI - Key performance indicator 
MES - Manufacturing execution systems 
MSD - Moisture-sensitive device 
OEE - Overall equipment effectiveness 
PLM - Product lifecycle management 
RFID - Radio-frequency identification 
SDK - Software development kit 
SMEMA -Surface Mount Equipment Manufacturers Association 
SMT - Surface-mount technology 
SPI - Solder paste inspection 
THT - Through-hole technology 